Since the Nigerian senior national team (Green or Super Eagles) featured in its first game in 1949, it has participated in hundreds of matches — some of which it won, lost, and drew. TheCable takes a look at the five times the three-time African champions recorded huge wins. The recent being a 10-0 annihilation of São Tomé & Principe on Monday evening at the Grand Stade Agadir in Morocco. July 27, 1991: AFCON — Nigeria 7-1 Burkina Faso At the Surulere National Stadium in Lagos, the Super Eagles showed their class with a 7-1 emphatic victory against the Burkina babes in the second leg of the 1992 AFCON qualifiers. Yekini netted four goals in the game. Scorers: Rashidi Yekini (4 goals), Samson Siasia, Friday Elahor, Finidi George July 24, 1993: AFCONQ — Nigeria 6-0 Ethiopia With Clemens Westerhof in the dug-out, the Super Eagles went riot by walloping the Walya Antelope of Ethiopia six goals to nothing at the Surulere National Stadium in Lagos in the 1994 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualification series. Scorers: Rashidi Yekini (hat-trick), Nduka Ugbade, Barnabas Imenger, Peter Rufai (penalty) <span style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" data-mce-type="bookmark" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> October 14, 2012: AFCONQ — Nigeria 6-1 Liberia The late Stephen Keshi’s squad had one of their finest outings in their 2012 AFCON qualifier games as they destroyed the Lone Stars of Liberia 6-0 at the U.J Esuene Stadium in Calabar to win the tie by 8-3 and picked the 2013 ticket for the biennial continental football showpiece in South Africa — which the nation went on to win. Scorers: Victor Moses, John Obi Mikel, Ahmed Musa, Ambrose Efe, Ikechukwu Uche June 17, 2013: Confederation Cup — Tahiti 1-6 Nigeria As African champions, the Super Eagles of Nigeria started their campaign at the FIFA Confederation Cup at the Mineirao Stadium in Belo Horizonte, Brazil, against Tahiti on a good note with a 6-1 victory over the minnows. The 138th-ranked team then, showed class at the beginning of the match before the Eagles took over the wheels from the South Pacific Islanders. Scorers: Nnamdi Oduamadi (hattrick), Elderson Echiejile, Vallar (og), Jonathan Tehau (og) <span style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" data-mce-type="bookmark" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> June 13, 2022: AFCONQ: Nigeria 10-0 São Tomé & Principe The Eagles put a smile on the faces of Nigerians after missing a spot in the 2022 FIFA World Cup in Qatar later in the year with the 10-0 whitewashing of São Tomé & Principe in Morocco. The 2023 AFCON qualifier game saw Victor Osimhen bag four goals and his first-ever hat-trick in a Nigeria shirt. Scorers: Victor Osimhen (4), Moses Simon, Oghenekaro Etebo, Terem Moffi (2), Ademola Lookman, Emmanuel Dennis 