Bola Tinubu, the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), says his choice for a running mate is in his pocketbook. Following his victory in the APC presidential primary election, speculation has been rife about the identity of the vice-presidential candidate of the party. Several APC governors are believed to be in contention for the position, but there has been no official decision yet. Speaking after meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the state house on Thursday, Tinubu was asked to divulge where he was leaning towards. In response, he said: “I won’t tell you that. That is my right, it’s in my pocketbook.” Tinubu, who polled 1,271 votes to defeat 13 other contenders, also praised the president for not “tinkering” with the presidential primary. The former Lagos governor said Buhari showed that he is trustworthy by not endorsing any of the presidential hopefuls. “He promised the entire country and the world that he will build a legacy of transparency and consistency, the legacy of a level playing ground for all the candidates, that he will be committed to democratic principles and values and he did so,” Tinubu said. “He did not endorse anybody, he did not impose anybody, and he did not at any time attempt to tinker with the process of this election to favour one tribe or the other. He was steadfast, trustworthy, dependable and a great leader. “It is not my victory that is important, it is the process and management of that election that gave it to President Muhammadu Buhari.” The APC presidential candidate said he is ready to take over the mantle from Buhari while reeling out some of his attributes. “I am brilliant, I am experienced from the private sector to the public sector and ready to hit the ground running the same day — and not mess up the legacy of progress and honesty that has been left behind and handed over to me by President Buhari,” he said. He also advised members of the ruling party to celebrate the outcome of the primary with moderation, noting that the real work has just commenced. “All APC party members should celebrate in a limited manner. We’ve just begun the hard work, the work ahead to win the victory for our party is a hard one and we will win,” he said.