The house of representatives has invited Babatunde Irukera, executive vice-chairman of the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC), and Mojisola Adeyeye, director-general of the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC). Irukera and Adeyeye are to appear before the house committee on commerce to “justify the presence of Harpic and Hypo, and other non-effective cleaning disinfectants in the Nigeria market”. Hypo and Harpic are brands of disinfectants used for cleaning, including for washing toilets. The resolution was passed during plenary session on Tuesday following the adoption of a motion sponsored by Sergius Ogun, a lawmaker from Ogun state. While moving the motion, the lawmaker said the products are not as effective as they are portrayed in advertisements. “Toilet cleaning disinfectants such as Harpic and Hypo used in most households in Nigeria are ineffective, poor quality and leave much to be desired,” he said. “Despite the poor quality of these toilet cleaning disinfectants, there are several television sponsored advertisements that are misleading unsuspecting members of the public who rely on such adverts product information to make purchases. “Most Nigerians utilise these disinfectants in cleaning their homes, offices, hospitals, churches and mosques without getting the value for money spent in purchasing such products. “I appreciate that there are so many products in the market that are not meeting the desires of people buying them. But these two affect me most. Mr speaker, I have different houses and I have bought these products. When I use them I don’t see the same effect as I see on the television. The same thing is in my office in the national assembly here. That is why I say it is of concern to me. If these people are not cautious, they will be cheating the public. They don’t have a voice, that is why we were elected to speak for them.” The motion was adopted when it was put to a voice vote by Idris Wase, the presiding officer of the session. Following that, the house mandated committees on commerce and legislative compliance to ensure compliance and report back within four weeks for further legislative action.