BY TAIWO SUNDAY TIMOTHY Another phase of leadership recruitment in Nigeria is here and it is trite to say the country is currently on the verge of drowning, whereby all hands need to be on deck to salvage our dear nation from the looming calamity. All things being equal, gubernatorial elections will be held on June 18, 2022, in Ekiti state, and July 16, 2022, in Osun state. 2023, going forward, the presidential and national assembly elections will hold on Saturday 25th February 2023 while the governorship and state houses of assembly elections in 30 Nigerian states will hold two weeks later on Saturday 11th March 2023, according to the latest elections timetable from the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). People in the media, via print, radio, television and a variety of digital platforms are doing a very momentous work daily, to provide citizens with timely information on every bit of affairs in the Nigerian socio-political space covering the prevalent insecurity, human rights abuses, injustice, unemployment, poor infrastructural development, armed banditry, terrorist attacks and the endemic corruption on the part of government officials at the local level to the subnational and federal level in Nigeria, to guide and or inform their decision makings and help them rationally measure their electoral choices. Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country, the largest economy and most notable democracy has been ranked in the 102nd position out of 104 countries captured in the inaugural Chandler Good Government Index (CGGI) which classifies countries in terms of government capabilities and outcomes, amongst the country’s very many shortcomings. It is no news that the country is in dire need of a government that prioritises fulfilling its end of the social contract and is capable of driving sound social, political, economic and security reform to reposition the Nigerian state for greatness. It is however appalling how Nigerian citizens despite the rising need to be more active in the leadership recruitment process are rather becoming more disinterested in the electoral system. Analysis of voters’ turnout since 1999 when the country returned to civilian rule showed that Nigerians are becoming less interested in the electoral system. The last (2019) general elections recorded the lowest turnout of voters where out of 82,344,107 registered voters, only 27,324,583 were accredited by the INEC on the election day, recording about 35 per cent turnout. Citizens’ cold interest in the electoral system and recurring declination in voters’ turnout will do us no good but worsen the situation of the country, hence a need for every Nigerian citizen eligible to vote to come alive to current realities and begin to take proactive steps towards saving this nation from imminent destruction. That power lies in my vote; and your vote. Ahead 2023 Polls, here are six reasons why you should vote as a Nigerian: VOTING IS YOUR DEMOCRATIC RIGHT Nigeria as a democratic state provides citizens with the constitutional power to vote and participate in electoral processes regardless of their sex, gender, religion, socioeconomic background or status. There’s no marginalization when it comes to exercising franchise in Nigeria. According to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Article 21 states: “Everyone has the right to take part in the government of his/her country, directly or through freely chosen representatives. Everyone has the right to equal access to public services in his country. The will of the people shall be the basis of government authority; this shall be expressed in periodic and genuine elections which shall be by universal and equal suffrage and shall be held by secret ballot or equivalent free voting procedures”. Democracy only works if people participate. VOTE FOR POSITIVE DEVELOPMENT When you neglect to vote, you are voting by default. Many wrongs in Nigeria today could be captured under governance failure, and apparently, it is people in government that do governance. According to Chinua Achebe, “Nigeria’s greatest problem is Political Leadership”. In essence, if unworthy people make up the government circle, then they simply deliver what they’re made up of. Elective political offices in Nigeria are scaled through figures, and figures come from vote counts. So when a ruling government performs abysmally, the only power to bring about a more responsive system of governance lies in your vote. IT IS YOUR MONEY In Nigeria, even when you buy a sachet of water, you pay tax. Directly or indirectly, every Nigerian citizen pays taxes, and the Nigerian economy is run on an exchange of value by citizens. Governments from the grassroots, to subnational and to the federal level operate wholly on the public funds, our commonwealth; national treasury. When we don’t vote, we leave them to their own devices and those of the lobbyists. Then, money, not your best interests, governs. You pay taxes, but do you know how that money is being used? Most people don’t. Voting is your chance to decide how your taxes are spent. VOTE FOR THE SAKE OF YOUR COMPLETE WELL-BEING Your future, our future, our welfare, our well-being, our prosperity, and our health depends on the communities, nation and world we build. In Nigeria, that is determined by our vote. It’s no gainsaying; next to God’s power is political power. By virtue of constitutional provisions in Nigeria, it does not matter how much intelligent, influential, exposed, wealthy and even spiritual you are, any government decision either in your favour or not supremely bind on you. Then you have to be part of the process that births proficient and compassionate leaders capable of making citizen-centred decisions and delivering on their mandate. VOTE TO PROTECT YOUR INTEREST Chief executives like governors and presidents appoint judges and justices, ministers, commissioners, auditors-general, accountants-general and a host of other officials into sensitive offices. Who emerges in the 2023 election determines who occupies those offices in the next multiple years. Voting — rather than just venting on social media or protesting — is the best way to make your voice heard and make a positive input on the issues that concern you. VOTE FOR YOUR NEXT GENERATION The political choices we make today impact our children, grandchildren and all generations that follow. Make decisions that will improve their lives by voting. It also sets a good example and encourages civic responsibility. You have the power to decide on the quality of life you want for yourself and future generations. Voting is your chance to stand up for the issues you care about like public transportation, raising the minimum wage, or funding local schools. This is your life: take the time to help decide what’s best. Timothy is a civic engagement professional based in Ìbàdàn, Southwest, Nigeria.