Usman Baba, inspector-general of police, has deployed 31 senior officers for the June 18 governorship election in Ekiti state. According to a statement issued on Sunday by Olumuyiwa Adejobi, force spokesman, the IGP also ordered the mobilisation of technical capabilities of the police airwing, the force marine, mounted troops, K-9 section, and other operational assets to the state. In addition, five armored personnel carriers for patrol, as well as four helicopters and unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) for aerial surveillance. According to him, the personnel and resources will ensure effective supervision of operations in the election. Baba also directed that Johnson Kokumo, deputy inspector-general of police in charge of the force criminal investigation department (FCID), should be deployed as the state coordinator of the security component of the election. “DIG Kokumo is responsible for overseeing the implementation of the operation order evolved from the election security threat assessment, to ensure a peaceful and conducive environment devoid of violence and to guarantee law abiding citizens of secured freely perform their civic responsibilities without molestation or intimidation,” the statement reads. “DIG Kokumo will be assisted by four (4) assistant inspectors-general of police (AIGs), three (3) commissioners of police (CPs), five (5) deputy commissioners of police (DCPs) and eighteen (18) assistant commissioners of police (ACPs). “The senior officers are to coordinate human and other operational deployments in the three (3) senatorial districts, sixteen (16) local government areas and the 2445 polling units in Ekiti state. “The IGP noted that the force has carried out these necessary operational deployments as part of actions aimed at creating a conducive and enabling environment that will guarantee the peaceful and proper conduct of the election in Ekiti state. “The IGP further noted that the personnel, comprising conventional police officers, police mobile force (PMF), counter terrorism unit (CTU), special forces personnel, explosives ordinance unit (EOD), force intelligence bureau (FIB), INTERPOL, special protection unit (SPU), force public relations department (FPRD), as well as police medical teams, will be on ground to guarantee free, fair, credible and acceptable election. “The IGP reassures the nation and the international community that the Force is adequately prepared for the gubernatorial election in Ekiti state which is scheduled to hold on June 18, 2022. “He reiterates that the force will do everything within its powers to work with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and all stakeholders to protect democratic values, provide level playing field for all political actors, ensure adequate protection of voters, INEC officials, equipment, accredited observers, both domestic and international, and other key players in Ekiti state.” Baba further called on Ekiti residents to comply with the order on restriction of movement, which will be announced by the commissioner of police. He encouraged residents to participate in the exercise as adequate security has been put in place by the police and other security agencies to protect them before, during and after the election.