Ameerah Safiyanu, a Twitter user who raised an alarm on the social media platform over alleged kidnap, says the incident relating to the post didn’t happen. On June 14, Ameerah, via her Twitter handle @Ameerah_sufyan, tweeted that she and 16 other persons, including children and pregnant women, were kidnapped from their different homes in the federal capital territory (FCT). “Please whoever has my WhatsApp number, I sent a broadcast message of my location. We were abducted at gunpoint by [people] with police uniforms and a van from our houses from different parts of Abuja. We’re 17 including 3 pregnant women and two little kids. They didn’t see my phone,” she had written. In another post published about two hours after the previous one, she said the victims had been divided into separate groups. The incident had elicited reactions on social media as many Nigerians bemoaned the country’s security challenges. Reacting to the incident, the FCT police command had said operatives had been deployed to track the victims. Three days later, the FCT police command said Ameerah had been found, and debunked the report of the abduction of 17 persons. On Monday, Ameerah posted on Twitter that the previous tweet was false alarm. “Good day all, I would like to formally apologize to the general public, to the whole police department and my friends and family for misleading them with the below tweet, nothing of such happened and it was all just my delusions and negative thinking,” she wrote. “I intentionally took myself out of our house, went to these locations, entered bushes and dehydrated and starved myself for four days just like that, there was no kidnapping, nothing at all. I truly apologize and please pray for me. Like to thank the IG and the CP Babaji Sunday for helping me through this may God reward them abundantly.” Good day all, I would like to formally apologize to the general public, to the whole police department and my friends and family for misleading them with the below tweet, nothing of such happened and it was all just my delusions and negative thinking, I would also like to thank https://t.co/puiYzCh1ye — MINDCOACH (@Ameerah_sufyan) June 20, 2022 