BY ADAGHER TERSOO Victor-Marie Hugo, a French poet, novelist and essayist died more than two centuries ago but there still stands some immortal and memorial thoughts he blessed the world with before his demise in 1885. Hugo said: “There is one thing stronger than all the armies in the world, and that is an idea whose time has come”. These thoughts bear striking parallel to the fecundity of fresh ideas, vision and drive that Akinsanya Abiodun, the Delta state commandant of Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), has brought to refashion and redefine the fight against criminality in Delta state. In the past year, by dint of hard work, courage and clear-minded focus, Akinsanya has brought to the command, and indeed, the entire nation, what an average leader may not be able to accomplish in five years. Whoever advised the NSCDC commandant general Ahmed Audi to post Akinsanya Abiodun as Delta state commandant, has offered one of the most patriotic and generational services to our nation. The NSCDC under the leadership of Akinsanya Iskilu Abiodun has recorded tremendous achievements in disaster prevention, control and management, following his determination to sustain the partnership with relevant bodies towards enhancing crisis resolution, providing protection and security to public infrastructure, lives and properties in the state. Top on the list of achievements recorded by the command under his watch between June 1, 2021, and May 2022 are the numerous arrests made by the anti-vandal unit, mines and steel unit, and intelligence department for offences of suspected illegal dealings in petroleum products (AGO), Kerosine (DPK), adulteration of petroleum products, illegal mining, armed robbery, pipeline vandalism, fraud, stealing, cultism and defilement, investigation and prosecution of arrested suspects of vandalization of oil and gas pipelines including illegal dealings in petroleum products by the legal department, staff discipline/capacity building, monitoring, supervision, licensing and regulation of private guard companies in Asaba and Warri metropolis, special duty and conflict resolution. Others are the launch of the NSCDC Delta state command female armed squad; Workshop on ‘Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps COVID-19 Response Train the Trainers and community sensitization for South-South/South-East Region, Sensitization/Awareness Campaign/Rally on COVID-19 Omicron Virus for NSCDC Personnel in Asaba and its environs, Celebration of World Civil Defence Day at the Delta State Command, Asaba, Sensitization meeting with the owners of filling stations in Ughelli South LGA, Peace and Security Summit; as well as a visit to participants of the senior executive course 44 from the National Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies, Kuru, Jos in Plateau state to NSCDC Delta State Command. On June 29, 2021, a robbery case was recorded in Udu LGA, where two suspects were killed by NSCDC operatives along Mofor-Aladja Express road in Udu LGA involving a tricycle with some women where two locally made pistols, the tricycle with number plate: BEN-EDO-302-OJ and an Android phone belonging to one Esther Temisere, one school bag, one lunch pack and a school uniform were recovered. The command’s anti-vandal team, Ughelli Outpost on June 23, 2021, arrested and paraded before the press, three suspects for illegal dealings in petroleum products and were immediately handed over to the intelligence and investigation department for further investigation and possible prosecution. One Uchenna Ozor, (M), 24 years was arrested on July 15, 2021, by personnel of the NSCDC in Onitsha, Anambra state, for conniving and conspiring with one Ezenwa (M) now still under surveillance to steal a trailer truck with registration number plate; Lagos –KRD 80 XY, belonging to his employer, Okonkwo Thomas Ogechukwu in Lagos. The command has since handed over the suspect to the Lagos state command for further investigation and possible prosecution. Again, the command’s anti-vandal team, Agbor, arrested and paraded before the press, two suspects who were caught with a 45,000 litres capacity truck with registration number SEY 930 XA, loaded with illegally refined AGO from Port-Harcourt en route Lagos on July 11, 2021, and handed over to the intelligence and investigation department for further interrogation and possible prosecution. On August 24, 2021, NSCDC operatives deployed to the Delta State Polytechnic, Otefe-Oghara, arrested two suspected cultists of the Black Axe Confraternity while another two suspects also were tracked and arrested by the NSCDC divisional officer, SC Bamidele Oladipo, at Faculty Bar along new Sapele/Agbor road Obiaruku, Ukwuani LGA on September 3, 2021, for stealing and fraud and were equally handed over to the intelligence and investigation department of the NSCDC state headquarters in Asaba for further investigation and possible prosecution. The gains of the renewed synergy between the Delta state command of the NSCDC under Akinsanya showed up again on October 15, 2021, when the Nigerian Navy in Warri arrested and handed over two suspects to the command over dealings in locally refined petroleum products. The two suspects are Omovie Daniel, 40 years (M) and Oparinde Abayomi Peters, 38 years (M), while an exhibit, a DAF truck with registration number DUT 505 ZB loaded with 60,000 litres of locally refined AGO parked in a compound in Ugbokodo-Itsekiri was again handed over to the intelligence and investigation department to carry out further investigation and possible prosecution. On October 19, 2021, NSCDC operatives in Ughelli South LGA of Delta state on a covert operation, apprehended and arrested two suspects at Obi-Ayagha Waterside community for dealing in locally refined petroleum products (AGO), aiding and abetting vandalism and crude oil theft. They were found with a white truck with registration number WDL 51 XA (HOWO Model) conveying 17,000 litres of suspected locally refined petroleum product. The suspects, Nura Saidu, male, 37 years old (driver) and Ashiru Abubakar, male, 32 years (motor boy) both from Kano state and the truck were both brought to the NSCDC command headquarters by the Rapid Response team led by SC Alex handed over to the intelligence and investigation department for further investigation and possible prosecution. The intelligence and investigation department also, on October 16, 2021, arrested Ezenwa Chinedu, a driver at Ogbunike building material market, Onitsha, Anambra state, for conspiracy and stealing/conversion of a truck with registration number XA 629 KHE belonging to Okonkwo Thomas Okechukwu worth over N10 million in December 2020 while on the way from Lagos to Port-Harcourt. The suspect has since been under investigation and possible prosecution. Upon interrogation, Ezenwa’s confessions led to the arrest of another suspect who is also a driver, Uchenna Ozor, male, 24 years, from Umulokpa, Uzo-Uwani, who was also tracked and arrested by NSCDC intelligence officers at Ochanja market, Onitsha. He revealed that Ezenwa had collected the truck from where it was parked and absconded with it. On October 21, 2021, the NSCDC division in Ukwuani, arrested Onyeisue Ekene for alleged theft of an inverter battery at Obiaruku Mall. The suspect who confessed to committing the crime was equally handed over to the police for further investigation and necessary legal actions. The Delta state commandant on October 22, 2021, paraded one Isaac Eripade, 43 years old (M) who was arrested by the joint task force of the ‘Operation Delta Safe’ in Warri by the Nigerian Army before the press for allegedly vandalizing an oil well head belonging to the Nigerian Petroleum Development Company/ NECONDE Oil Company. The suspect has since been handed over to the intelligence and investigation department for further investigation and possible prosecution. A case of suspected illegal dealings in petroleum products was also recorded on December 16, 2021, when the Delta State Command arrested two suspects for suspected illegal dealings in petroleum products; gasoline automated oil (AGO), and kerosene in a mini bus, with registration number KPP 351 YT. The suspects, Ojewale Blessing (F) 41 years of Ezeukwu quarters, Ibusa town, Oshimili North LGA and Animam Henry (M), 22 years of Umuneze quarters, Ibusa town, were arrested at a checkpoint along Ogwashi-uku road, Aniocha South LGA and have also been handed over to the intelligence and investigation department for further investigation and possible prosecution with exhibits recovered from them parked at the NSCDC Exhibit Yard. On January 8, 2022, another suspect Chinedu Nwaedozie (M) 45 years, from Okpanam Town, Oshimili North LGA, was also arrested by NSCDC operatives for a criminal case involving the selling and reselling of a piece of land belonging to one Nwaezeapu Martins from Ibuzo, Oshimili North LGA. The Delta state command of the NSCDC however intervened and resolved the matter where both families were invited and the land restored back to the complainant by the seller. Some suspected illegally adulterated petroleum products (AGO) depots along Ifiokparo, Ubeji, and Jedi junction axis in Warri South LGA of Delta state were also raided and destroyed on January 17, 2022, by the anti-vandal unit of the Delta state command of NSCDC. Exhibits recovered from the raid were 200HP engine used to propel a Cotonou wooden boat by the suspects, drums and content, and pumping machines amongst others. The NSCDC anti-vandal team, Sapele outpost, also arrested another suspect, Chinonye Stephen (M) 18 years, a motor boy in Port-Harcourt, Rivers state, with a truck with registration number: Rivers-Abu 224 XA conveying suspected automated gasoline oil (AGO) of about 45,000 on January 19, 2022. The suspect has since been handed over to the intelligence and investigation department for further investigation and possible prosecution while the tanker has confiscated and parked at the command’s exhibit yard. On January 22, 2022, Harrison Ofia (M), 27 years of Iffite-street, Awka in Anambra state, was tracked and arrested by NSCDC operatives at Shoprite in Asaba, the Delta state capital, for allegedly defrauding his clients the sum of N10 million. The suspect has since been in custody while investigation into the case is currently ongoing by the intelligence and investigation department for possible prosecution. The NSCDC anti-vandal team, Warri Outpost, again on January 23, 2022, arrested two suspects in Warri namely Chibuike Anene, motor boy, (M) 36 years, residing at No.61 Eme court street, Nnewi Umudim, Anambra state, and Chukwuka Edobuike, 28 years of the same address for an alleged case of illegal dealings in petroleum products. The suspects had been handed over to the intelligence and investigation department for further investigation and possible prosecution. The NSCDC Antivandal Marine team, Warri Marine Outpost, on January 23, 2022, paraded four suspects for alleged illegal dealings in dual purpose kerosene (DPK) and have since been handed over to the intelligence and investigation department for further investigation and possible prosecution while the tactical team of the anti-vandal unit on January 24, 2022, arrested a 40ft container body truck conveying polythene in sacks of 25 litres capacity each, suspected to be adulterated gasoline oil locally called diesel. On February 10, 2022, the NSCDC mines and steel unit in collaboration with the federal ministry of mines and steel, Asaba, embarked on a joint operation in Agbarho, Ughelli North LGA, where two suspects were arrested namely Joseph Rukevwe (M) 36 years of No. 3 Oguma street, Osubi town and Lucky Odjedi (M) 46 years, of Adah Brass, Okpe town for illegal mining and excavation of sand without approved license permit from the federal ministry of mines and steel. They were brought to the state headquarters in Asaba for interrogation. Following a request from the federal ministry of mines and steel that the suspects had agreed to renew their licenses, the suspects were subsequently released from custody. The command’s anti-vandal team at Agbor on February 12, 2022, rescued a lady, Miss Blessing Francis, 22, from the hands of suspected kidnappers along Uteremu in Ika North-East LGA, Ekuku-Agbor. The lady was said to have arrived at Agbor from Aba in Abia state on the above date and boarded a Sienna bus beside Agbor park headed to Obiaruku in Ukwuani LGA. While on the journey, the suspects were said to have diverted the bus and drove them through a bushy part of Uteremu. The anti-vandal operatives of the Delta state command of the NSCDC who were on their duty post had noticed the unusual movement and decided to trail them and upon realizing that they were being trailed, the suspects dropped two of the victims and took six away. One of the victims, a female was rescued by the operatives while the other escaped into the bush for safety. The same anti-Vandal Unit in Agbor again on February 22, 2022, arrested three suspects for suspected illegal dealings in petroleum products, kerosine (DPK) loaded in sacks and conveyed in a tipper with registration number: BEN 311 ZU, MANDIZEL. While the truck has been parked at the NSCDC exhibit yard, the case is with the Intelligence and Investigation Department for further investigation and possible prosecution. On February 23, 2022, the 181 Amphibious Battalion of Operation Delta Safe of the Nigeria Army, Agbarha-otor, Ughelli, Delta state, handed over 10 suspected pipeline vandals who were arrested by their own troops at Evurode community, Arhavwarien Kingdom in Ughelli south local government to the NSCDC, Delta State Command, where items recovered from the suspects include two trucks, with registration number Lagos SMK 195XP, Lagos XM 761 LSD loaded with moribund pipes belonging to erstwhile Shell Petroleum Development Company and a Toyota Camry with registration number: KWC 53 HH. The suspects have since been handed over to the intelligence and investigation department for further investigation and possible prosecution. The NSCDC Anti-Human Trafficking and Irregular Migration Unit of the Command on February 23, 2022, received a complaint from Ogbobe Nkemdilim, (F), 17, who is a student of Zappa Basic Secondary School, Asaba against Richard Ohiomu, (M), 35 who conspired with his wife, Patience Ohiomu, 43, to defiled and impregnate her with threats that the victim should deny that she was never molested by Richard and went ahead to abort the baby. The case has been transferred to the intelligence and investigation department for further investigation and possible prosecution. The Command’s Anti-vandal team at Patani again on February 25, 2022, arrested two persons, namely, Josiah Peter (m), 41, of Ogute community and Benson Godday (m), 29 of Ogute community both of Okpella East LGA in Edo state for suspected illegal dealings in petroleum product. The truck with registration number; 9KJ 643XN which was filled with suspected adulterated petroleum product has since been parked at the command’s exhibit yard, while the suspects have been handed over to the intelligence and investigation department for further interrogation and possible prosecution. On February 25, 2022, three suspects namely; Friday Okonkwo(m) 29; Ekene Okafor (m) 25; and Udekwe Ofodile (m), 47, all of Ugbolu community, in Oshimili North LGA were arrested by a combined team of NSCDC Mines and Steel Unit in collaboration with federal ministry of mines and steel, Asaba branch, for an offence of illegal mining and operating without license in Ugbolu, Oshimili North LGA.  They were handed over and detained at the Station Office. Following a request from the Federal Ministry of Mines and Steel, the suspects were later released after obtaining the necessary licenses from the office. On March 4, 2022, NSCDC operatives again arrested one Oyibo Ochuko Mercy (f), 27, behind Ebrumede Police Station, Effurun, Warri, for allegedly defrauding her client through her POS business. The suspect has since been handed over to the intelligence and investigation department for further investigation and possible prosecution. Akinsanya again on March 12, 2022, paraded 19 suspects before the press, two tankers and seven trucks arrested for various crimes in Delta State. Two of the suspects, Odiaka Divine (m) 22 and Monday Bakwana (m) 28 were arrested by the tactical squad of the Anti-vandal unit in Patani LGA on March 9, 2022, while conveying petroleum products suspected to be illegally refined DPK (dual purpose kerosine) in polythene sacks inside a Mercedes 817 mini truck. Also paraded were 17 suspects, two tankers, and six trucks loaded with illegally refined petroleum product suspected to be AGO (diesel) that was arrested in Ozoro, the headquarters of Isoko North LGA by the commandant general’s special intelligence squad in less than 48 hours on arrival and operations in the state. The suspects will be charged to court for possible prosecution upon the conclusion of investigation. On March 13, 2022, the commandant general’s special intelligence wquad from Abuja in a joint operation, arrested two suspects, namely; Hassan Mohammed (m) 40, and Useni Yakubu (m) 23 of No.113 Madam Mercy Road, Abuja for suspected illegal dealings in petroleum product. The truck with registration number ENU 731 XY, Enugu which conveyed the adulterated products has since been parked at the NSCDC exhibit yard, while the suspects were handed over to the intelligence and investigation department for further investigation. The CG’s special squad also arrested two suspects; Nelson Chibuzor (m), 32, of No. 32 Igbodo Street, Ikeja, Lagos state, and Ikechukwu Augustine (m) 42, of No. 5 Ogbunike street, Ogbunike town, Anambra state, for illegal dealings in petroleum product (AGO). The truck with registration number KPP 281 XY containing the illegal product is also parked at the NSCDC exhibit yard while the suspects are undergoing investigation at the intelligence and investigation department. On March 17, 2022, the commandant general’s special intelligence squad in collaboration with the NSCDC anti-vandal team, arrested nine suspects for alleged illegal dealings in the same petroleum product (AGO) at Ughelli. The following trucks with registration numbers: YLA 810 XM Adamawa and AKK 144 XA are currently parked at the NSCDC exhibit yard while the suspects have been handed over to the intelligence and investigation department for further investigation and possible prosecution. Again on March 30, 2022, the NSCDC Anti-vandal team in Asaba, arrested two suspects: Christian Onwudinjo (m), 45 and Chibuike Odezuru (m), 50 of No. 13, Alor Street, Nkpor, Onitsha, Anambra state, for alleged illegal dealings in petroleum product (AGO). The suspects were arrested while conveying the product and handed over to the intelligence and investigation department for further investigation and possible prosecution while the truck with registration number: UMZ 51 ZC (DAF) is parked at the exhibit yard. On March 30, 2022, the NSCDC Anti-vandal team at the Koko axis, arrested two suspects; Kabiru Yusuf (m), 28 and Mohammed Musa (m), 23 at Kaduna Ifekpe community, Dekina LGA, Kogi state, in a black Toyota Avensis car number plate: GRA-852 KH. The car has since been parked at the exhibit yard of the command while the case is referred to the investigation and intelligence department for further investigation and possible prosecution. On April 7, 2022, the NSCDC Anti-vandal Team at Patani axis, again arrested one motor boy named Mubarak Bala (m) 20 from Atagarawa LGA of Katsina State for an offence of suspected illegal dealing in petroleum product. The truck driver is still at large, while the truck with registration number KAT-164 X and its content of about 40,000 litres of AGO was parked at the exhibit yard. The NSCDC Anti-vandal team at Sapele axis on April 20, 2022, arrested some suspects for dealing with vandalization sleepers materials. They were conveying the materials from Sapele to Ilorin, Kwara state, to a ‘Kum’ industry while they were arrested alongside with two trucks with registration numbers; FKJ 846 XZ and AGL 588 XX respectively. The trucks are equally parked at the exhibit yard while suspects are undergoing further investigation in the intelligence and investigation department for possible prosecution. On April 22, 2022, the NSCDC Mines and Steel Unit, in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Mines and Steel in Asaba, arrested three suspects Edesin Adigbesa (m), 20; Apini Moses (m), 20, and Benard Efechukwu (m) 19 all of No. 121 Ovwian road, Udu LGA for illegal mining. They were arrested in Ovwian, Udu LGA while engaging in illegal mining and brought to the state headquarters of the command in Asaba for further interrogation. A fake army corporal, Okeleke Emmanuel, who has been on the wanted list of the Nigerian Army was also arrested inside Delta State University Teaching Hospital (DELSUTH) Oghara, Ethiope West LGA on May 20, 2022 by a combined team of the Nigerian Army and armed NSCDC personnel. He has since been taken to Koko Army Barracks for further interrogation. On May 12, 2022, the Anti-vandal unit of the Command at Kwale axis, arrested John Osageh (motor boy) and his boss for alleged illegal dealings in petroleum product and battery. The motor boy was said to have ran to NSCDC officials for rescue after he was injured and severely beaten by his boss who is at large for demanding for his remuneration from his boss. At the Koko outpost, NSCDC Anti-vandal operatives on May 18, 2022, arrested one suspect, Unity Edomi, (m), 35, of No. 20 Ibori road, Oghara-Efe, Ethiope West LGA for alleged illegal dealings in petroleum product. The suspect was handed over to the intelligence and investigation department for further interrogation and possible prosecution, while the vehicle and its content with registration number plate BB 444 LND, Lagos (Toyota Sequoia) has been parked at the Exhibit yard. On May 20, 2022, the NSCDC Anti-vandal unit at Okpe arrested two suspects; John Orogba, (m), 35 of Okanji street, Ororeokpe, Okpe LGA and Tega Emakpor (m), 32, of No.6, Udu street for an offence of suspected illegal dealing in petroleum product (DPK), kerosene. The suspects were conveying kerosene (DPK) in a sack inside their two Toyota Camry saloon cars in Okpe town weighing about two drums of kerosene product. The two vehicles with registration number; No. UGH 421 Kz and LSD 607 FL and their content have been parked at the Exhibit yard, while the suspects are handed over to the intelligence and investigation department for further investigation and possible prosecution The intelligence and investigation department, in collaboration with the legal unit, carried out investigation and prosecution of arrested suspects in illegal dealings in petroleum products. On the 28th of January, 2021, the NSCDC Delta State Command secured a conviction at the Federal High Court, Warri. The suspect, one Innocent Nwokeoma, 26 was arrested by NSCDC operatives at MTN Office on August 18, 2020, for posing as an MTN logistic officer from Lagos. He was handed over to the intelligence and investigation department for further interrogation and possible prosecution. The suspect was sentenced to six months imprisonment, which will run concurrently. On staff discipline/capacity building, the state commandant re-activated the Provost and Servicom units to checkmate staff indiscipline, truancy, lateness, and other forms of misconduct and since then the level of compliance has been high; in-house training for personnel was introduced where various heads of departments and units deliver lectures every Monday to all officers of the command while several other officers attended training in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, and Abuja on ‘Peace and Conflict Resolution on Inter-agency Collaboration and Cooperation’ and ‘Conduct of Psychological Evaluation Examination for Armed Personnel’ in the command in order enhance professionalism in bearing fire arms. On assumption of office, the state commandant, re-organized the PGC department to ensure good synergy between the organization and her clients (companies) where monitoring, licensing, regulation and supervision were carried out both in Asaba and Warri metropolis during the period under review with some unlicensed companies sealed while others renewed their licenses. They have also assisted in giving credible security information to the corps. The NSCDC operatives also performed excellently well in the area of special duties as well as conflict resolution during the period under review. In line with the commandant general’s directive that all state commands should inaugurate female armed squads to assist in fighting crime and criminalities, the Delta state command of the NSCDC launched the squad with 50 female officers on July 30, 2021 with several government functionaries in attendance including the governor of Delta state, Dr Ifeanyi Okowa, was ably represented by the director-general of security matters, David Tonwe; permanent secretary,directorate of political and security studies, Delta state, Theophilus Chucks Aguonye; representative of the 63 Brigade Commander of the Nigeria Army, Asaba, Lt. Col. I.R, Adom, Garrison Commander, 63 Brigade; State Comptroller of Nigeria Correctional Services, F. E Ovie; state comptroller of Nigeria Immigration Service, E.Onobo; sector commander of the Federal Road Safety Commission who was represented by deputy corps commandant, Vivian Chidi, as well as state director of Department for State Services, Ademola Adebiyi, fsi, mni. On December 1, 2021, the command organized a workshop on ‘NSCDC COVID-19 Response Train the Trainers and Community Sensitization for South/South and South/East Regions’ where highlights were the advisory on COVID-19 prevention and roll out of COVID-19 mass vaccination and decontamination of sites. Consequently, in a bid to bridge the gap and live up to expectations in line with its mandate of saving lives by joining governments at all levels to fight the pandemic in Nigeria, Delta State Command, on December 3, 2021, carried out a sensitization/awareness campaign/rally on preventive measures against COVID-19 Omicron virus to various parts of Asaba like Ogbeogonogo market, Nnebisi major road. NSCDC leaflets, face mask, sanitizers, were freely distributed during the enlightenment campaign traders and other members of the public. The command on March 1, 2022, also celebrated the World Civil Defence Day with the theme; “Civil Defence and Management of Displaced Populations in the Face of Disaster and Crises: Role of Volunteers and the Fight Against Pandemics”. Within this period under review, the command also embarked on sensitization with owners of filling stations in the state where crucial issues were discussed with the NSCDC act was distributed to them, followed by sensitizing them on NSCDC’s core mandate; how to avoid hoarding and adulteration of petroleum products as it constitutes economic sabotage and the need to share intelligence information with operatives. A peace and security summit was also organized by the command on April 10, 2022, in collaboration with Global Awareness Against Violence & Abuse Foundation (GAAV), Sceptre Leadership International and the Delta state government on the theme: “Effective Leadership & Global Awareness Against Violence: Solution for a Peaceful and Abuse-free society”. It was in recognition of the efforts of the NSCDC Delta State Command towards addressing security challenges and strengthening local governance in the state that participants of the senior executive course 44 from the National Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies, Kuru, Jos, Plateau state, led by Prof. O.J. Para-Mallam (mni), director of studies at the institute visited the command headquarters in Asaba on May 20, 2022, for a local study tour with the theme; “Strengthening Local Governance in Nigeria; Changes, Options and Opportunities”. Adagher, a public affairs analyst, writes from Abuja