Tunde Bakare, the serving overseer of the Citadel Global Community Church, says his zero vote at the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential primary shows his resistance to “certain kinds of politics”. Bakare had bought the nomination and expression of interest forms to participate in the APC presidential primary, which took place from June 6 to 8. During the primary, while seven candidates had stepped down for Bola Tinubu, former Lagos governor, and one candidate withdrew for Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, Bakare said he would not step down for anybody as he was confident of his ability. However, Tinubu polled 1,271 votes and was declared the winner of the primary, while Bakare, as well as other presidential aspirants such as  Rochas Okorocha, Ikeobasi Mokelu and Tein Jack-Rich, had zero votes. Addressing his congregation on Sunday, Bakare said he would confidently wear his zero vote as a badge of zero tolerance for certain kinds of politics. He, however, congratulated Tinubu on his victory and wished him well. “As a presidential aspirant in this special convention of the All Progressives Congress, it has been a great honour to be the standard-bearer of the message of a new Nigeria and Nigeria that was for every Nigerian,” he said. “Thank you to my supporters across the nation and indeed, it is an honour. Thank you for your support. “Despite the challenges leading up to the primaries, our heads remain unbowed because we did not compromise on the values that are integral to building a new Nigeria for us. The meaning has always been as important as this. This is why we confidently wear our zero votes as a badge of zero tolerance for certain kinds of politics. “I congratulate the winner of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, for his victory. His emergence as a flagbearer and presidential candidate of the APC is a testament to his significant contributions to the cause of the south-west, as well as his labour towards the formation and establishment of the APC. “As I have said in times past, I, therefore, extend best wishes to him as he proceeds on the campaign trail towards the 2023 general election.” He, however, called on Nigerians to plan strategic roles in transforming the country. “I remain audaciously confident that a new Nigeria is possible and that upon the foundation values of integrity and incorruptibility, Nigeria will no doubt become a cutting-edge nation in my lifetime — a nation that will one day be the peace, progress, prosperity, and possibilities capital of the world,” he added. “This fight may have appeared to be a setback, but there is still a course and a nation to transform. This is not the work of just one man or woman or just one party, but all Nigerians worthy of the name.”