Reno Omokri, former special adviser to ex-president Goodluck Jonathan, has apologised to Bola Tinubu, presidential candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC), for mocking him over his health. The author, in a post on Facebook, said he has decided not to resort to insulting candidates participating in the 2023 general election, irrespective of his choice. Omokri also advised Nigerians to refrain from insulting candidates. “I have been guilty of using Bola Tinubu’s health status against him and I have come to realise that if we do not die early, we will all age and may suffer ill health,” he wrote. “Therefore, I profoundly apologise to Mr. Tinubu and his supporters. Even though it may seem that the health of a candidate is a serious issue, I nevertheless  promise to focus on other issues besides his health henceforth. May God bless you all. “Atiku, Tinubu, and Obi have been friendly with each other for upwards of 20 years. “So, you and I should support anyone other them without being unfriendly to each other. “I will campaign for my candidate, but won’t force him on you. Please do likewise with me! This election will come and go. “But Nigeria will remain, and God sparing our lives, we will also remain. No insults, no threats, no slander.” His statement comes months after he took a swipe at Tinubu after the latter travelled to London in January. Four months before, Tinubu returned to Nigeria from a three-month medical trip to the UK where he was said to have undergone knee surgery and “rigorous post-surgery physiotherapy”. There were speculations over Tinubu’s health status when he travelled to London in January, but sources close to the former Lagos governor had said he went to visit his family. However, Omokri, in a tweet, described Tinubu as a “London patient”. “Tinubu says he has jetted out to London to “rest”. Dear citizens of Nigeria, are you not tired of Buhari running to London to rest? Now you want to elect Tinubu, another London patient? Tinubu just returned from London three months ago. Now, he’s back there! Think!” he had posted. Tinubu says he has jetted out to London to “rest”. Dear citizens of Nigeria, are you not tired of Buhari running to London to rest? Now you want to elect Tinubu, another London patient? Tinubu just returned from London three months ago. Now, he’s back there! Think!#TableShaker — Reno Omokri (@renoomokri) January 28, 2022 