Tanko Sabo, a resident of Kaduna state, says he spent money he made from primaries as a delegate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), on the underprivileged. During the campaign to be selected as a delegate, Sabo had promised to give back whatever monetary benefits he made to the community if elected. Giving a breakdown of how the money was disbursed, Sabo, who is from Sanga LGA, said he paid N6.9 million as “WAEC and NECO examination fees for 150 orphans and the underprivileged. He said N100,000 was given as logistics to the five-man committee set up to go round the schools and pay the examination fees. Sabo also said N3.2 million was spent on the purchase of 42 customised jerseys, including goal keepers’ outfits, socks and tracksuit for a football coach to promote the game among the youths in the area. He added that the PDP ward executives in the LGA were not left out as he gave them N1.3 million. He further said he spent N350,000 to support elders, women and “executive beggars known as maroka”, as well as one Danladi Janda with N100,000. Sabo, who published details of how he shared the money on his Facebook page, said he participated in the state assembly, national assembly, governorship and presidential primaries of the PDP. “When I was campaigning to be elected delegate, I told my people that whatever I get as monetary benefit from the primaries, I will share with them,” Sabo told TheCable. “So, I am just fulfilling the promise I made when I was campaigning to be elected as a delegate for the primaries.” Asked how much he made during the primaries, he didn’t give a specific figure, but said the amount depends on the “connection” with aspirants. “The money you will get depends on your connection with the politicians. I have a lot of mentors and political leaders. There are some that contested for house of representative and state assembly primaries, but we couldn’t meet after their declaration,” he said. “We later met in Abuja during the national convention. There were some that promised me something during the convention. All the money they gave me for my hotel accommodation and food, I took it back to share with the people as I promised.” Sabo added that he plans to extend the gesture to the youths in Dogon Daji, Gani communities as well as “samba boys” of Bokana.