The house of representatives has commenced an investigation into the duplication of functions of some ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs). The committee chaired by Mela Victor, lawmaker representing Balanga/Biliri federal constituency of Gombe state, was inaugurated by Femi Gbajabiamila, speaker of the house on Wednesday. The lower legislative chamber had passed the resolution in March following the adoption of a motion sponsored by Tahir Monguno, the chief whip of the house. The committee is to investigate the “duplication of duties, overlapping functions and counter-productivity of established agencies, departments, boards, parastatals and corporations in the country”. Speaking during the committees’ inauguration, Gbajabiamila said duplication of fuctions in MDAs leads to “bickering, suspicion” as well as waste of “hard-earned government resources and time”. He said the committee will establish areas of mergers, synergies, and justification of the existence of some of the established MDAs. “The house of representatives is not out to witch-hunt any individual or organisation, but we are propelled by our desire to ensure good governance and in the exercise of our legislative oversight powers as enshrined in sections 88 and 89 of the 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria,” he said. The speaker said the committee is expected come up with solutions to the “apparent continuous conflict” of functions and avoidable bickering among established MDAs resulting in ineffectiveness, inefficiency and redundancy in the government workforce. “The committee is therefore expected to engage relevant stakeholders and members of the public with a view to resolving the areas of conflict among the MDAs, which may require amending some laws and/or outright repeal, as the case may be,” he said. In his remarks, Victor said the committee will conduct “detailed investigation” and that the panel’s recommendations upon conclusion of its mandate will save unnecessary expenditure.