Bolaji Tunji, a former special adviser to Abiola Ajimobi, the immediate past governor of Oyo state, says what Nigeria needs is a benevolent dictator who will transform the country. The journalist spoke on Tuesday about the state of the nation while featuring on a radio show titled ‘Ayekooto’. The show is anchored by Olayinka Agboola. It is broadcast live on Splash 105.5FM, Felele, Ibadan. Tunji argued that the rate at which Nigerians exhibit what he described as “lawlessness” is alarming. He said it now seems that being against the law is the norm. “Nigeria needs a shock treatment and a benevolent dictator. Take a look at countries like Singapore and others who were once in Nigeria’s situation and were able to move out of it,” Tunji said. “You will discover that the type of leadership we have in Nigeria today is not likely to take us to the promised land. “We need something different, a shock treatment because if we don’t have that kind of thing, we are still going to continue in the same process. We need a leader who is a visionary.” Tunji, who argued that he didn’t regret his decision to join politics, spoke of issues that emerged during the conduct of the APC primary election for the Ogbomosho North state constituency in Oyo. “I was offered a ticket in Accord party after I was rigged out of the APC primaries and I have not made up my mind to accept the offer,” he said. “It was one of our party stakeholders that made it possible for me to be offered the ticket because he saw that I am an asset and that I have been part of the struggle to enthrone good governance in Oyo state. “Few days before the election, I was asked to step down for another candidate. “Prior to that, I had been told that the seat for the federal constituency at the house of representatives was not available and I decided to contest for a seat in Ogbomosho North state constituency. “Before the primary, we had discussions with all factions of the party and its stakeholders on the sharing formula but as a result of power play, the agreement was not followed. Politics should not be rocket science or a do or die affair.” Tunji urged the federal government to improve its anti-corruption campaign and the economic situation of the country. He also urged Nigerian politicians not to betray the trust of the electorate who voted them into power.