Paradigm Initiative (PIN) has called on stakeholders and passionate individuals to take action regarding the code of practice for online platforms enacted by the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA). The organisation made the call in a statement on Tuesday. PIN said the draft code of practice is a potential tool for the abuse of constitutionally guaranteed rights of Nigerian citizens. NITDA had issued a code of practice for all online platforms operating in Nigeria. The agency said the code was developed with input received from online platforms including Twitter, Facebook, WhatsApp, Instagram, and Google, among others. The code of practice, according to the agency, will hold online platforms accountable for unlawful and harmful information on their platforms. PIN, in the statement, said it would be coordinating a response to this effect and calls on stakeholders to share concerns on the new code of practice. “PIN shares concerns of stakeholders and calls on everyone passionate about the protection of the digital civic space to take action regarding the recently released code of practice for interactive computer service platforms/internet intermediaries and conditions for operating in Nigeria by the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA),” PIN said. “The code of practice aims at creating a guideline for interacting within the digital ecosystem, especially on social media platforms. “The code of practice and its impending implementation goes to the essence of digital rights and freedom for all, and we are aware of the dangers inherent in the closing of digital civic space in Nigeria. “This is why we have been working with others to push back on this trajectory in Africa to ensure human rights considerations are taken into account in the development and implementation of digital policies. The released draft code of practice is a potential tool for the abuse of constitutionally guaranteed rights of Nigerian citizens. “While we continue to monitor the advancement of the code, we are calling for a civil society stakeholder session to coordinate input and response to this draft regulation. All stakeholders need to speak with one voice in response to this development so that our voices are heard loud and clear. “PIN shall be coordinating a response to the code of practice on Tuesday, June 21, 2022, via zoom. We urge all stakeholders to read and put down their concerns. To register click on this LINK. “We assure all stakeholders of our commitment to seeing digital policies be rights respected for all.”