The proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) says the insecurity and killings in the south-east “will only complicate” the trial of Nnamdi Kanu, its leader. Security agencies have said IPOB is responsible for the insecurity in the geopolitical zone but the outlawed secessionist group has always denied being involved. Emma Powerful, IPOB media and publicity secretary, said the killings are carried out by “enemies” who wish to capitalise on insecurity to blackmail the group. In a statement on Saturday, Powerful said the “atrocities” are usually carried out a few days before Kanu’s court dates to ensure he is not released from DSS custody. “The global movement and family of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) under the indefatigable leader and liberator Mazi Nnamdi KANU wish to reiterate once again over the incessant abductions, killings and insecurity in the Eastern region,” the statement reads. “Our people and those who claimed to be IPOB members need to understand that enemies will capitalise on the killings and insecurity in the South East to blackmail IPOB and our peaceful agitation. “Biafrans should take cognizance of the timing of these henious and barbaric acts of violence and murder. Our people and the world community should note that most of these heinous killings happen a few days before our Leader’s court dates. For instance- the army couple, the house of assembly member, the pregnant Hausa woman. These killing could not reasonably have been done or perpetrated by IPOB. “These atrocities are being committed by people who want to ensure that our leader Mazi Nnamdi KANU doesn’t come out from DSS custody and nobody who is genuinely interested in his release will be involved in these criminalities going-on in the South East. How can the killing of our own people whom our leader Mazi Nnamdi is fighting for their liberation and freedom help in securing his release? “It will only complicate his case and turn our people against him and against the Biafran cause which is what the Nigeria government wants…” He added that Kanu wants every “genuine person” who desires his freedom to stop all forms of criminalities in the south-east.