Sai’du Dandi’o, a senatorial aspirant, has been suspended by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kebbi state over alleged involvement in anti-party activities. Dandi’o was suspended by executive members of Nasarawa I ward in Birnin Kebbi LGA of the state. The senatorial aspirant had won the Kebbi central senatorial primary organised by his party. However, controversy had trailed the PDP ticket after Adamu Aliero, senator currently representing Kebbi central, who had recently defected from the All Progressives Congress (APC) to the PDP, won another primary organised by the party to represent the same district. In an interview published by The Punch on Sunday, Dandio had maintained that he won the ticket — unopposed — before Aliero joined the PDP, adding that he would not step down for the senator. But according to NAN, in a statement issued on Sunday by Ibrahim Na-Mazaba and Nasiru Aliyu, Nasarawa I ward chairman and secretary, respectively, the party said Dandi’o was suspended for “clandestine activities”. “At its extraordinary meeting held on Saturday, 18th June, 2022, the Executive Committee of Nasarawa I Ward noted the inappropriate conduct and anti-party activities of Malam Haruna Sa’idu Dandi’o before and after the conduct of the fresh Kebbi Central Senatorial Primary Election held on 19th June as ordered by the National Working Committee,” the statement reads. “His clandestine activities with the ruling party in the state such that his press interview was conducted in Kebbi State Liaison Office in Abuja and his continued anti-party activities in spite of so many entreaties to him. “Therefore, the Nasarawa I Ward Executive Committee hereby resolved as follows: that the State Executive Committee should be duly and adequately informed of the inappropriate conduct and anti-party activities of Malam Haruna Sa’idu Dandi’o for appropriate action. “That Malam Haruna Sa’idu Dandi’o be and hereby suspended from the party pending the decision of the State Executive Council or any appropriate disciplinary organ of our party in respect of our request. “That this resolution should be communicated to the Local Government Working Committee.”