A federal high court in Abuja has dismissed an application for bail filed by Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB). Binta Nyako, the judge, in her ruling on Tuesday, described the application as an abuse of court process having been previously denied. Kanu was re-arraigned on an amended 15-count charge bordering on treasonable felony. However, on April 8, the judge struck out eight of the 15-count charge. While counts 6,7,9,10,11,12,13 and 14 were struck out, the defendant is to stand trial on counts 1,2,3,4,5,8 and 15. The court had on May 18 refused to grant Kanu bail, stating that the application is premature. Instead, Nyako had asked the defendant to address the court on why he jumped bail for over four years. In a fresh bail application argued by Mike Ozekhome, Kanu challenged the revocation of the bail earlier granted to him. He prayed the court to set aside the order which not only issued a warrant for his arrest but also gave the federal government the nod to try him in absentia. Contrary to the federal government’s claim that he jumped bail, the IPOB leader told the court that he ran for his safety after troops attacked his hometown of Afaraukwu Ibeku in Umuahia, Abia state, which he claimed resulted in the deaths of 28 persons. But the judge held that she was not satisfied with the reasons averred by the defendant. She said the records of the court show that Kanu was represented by his lawyer and sureties on the day his bail was revoked. “In fact, he sureties told the court that they did not know the whereabouts of the defendant and even applied to be discharged from the matter. “Therefore, the defendant was not denied a fair hearing.” She said though the court has powers to vacate its previous order when confronted with a cogent and verifiable reason, “in the instant case, I have not been given any, neither have I been given any reason to set aside the order”. “The present application amounts to an abuse of court process for attempting to relitigate an issue already decided by the court. “If the defendant is dissatisfied, he has the appeal court to go to. “This application is accordingly dismissed.”