William Kumuyi, founder and general superintendent, Deeper Christian Life Ministry, has advised politicians to conduct research on what Nigerians desire regarding the next set of leaders. Kumuyi gave the advice on Wednesday, while addressing journalists in Ilorin, the Kwara capital, shortly after he paid a courtesy visit to Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, governor of the state. According to him, political leaders need to make consultations, especially on speculations around Muslim-Muslim or Christian-Christian ticket for the 2023 presidential election. “The Muslim-Muslim or Christian-Christian ticket is a difficult and slippery area,” he said. “So, what I will say is that the political office holders should look at the heartbeat of the country as well as desires of the people. “Politicians should know that they are not there for themselves. They are there for all of us. They should ask and make their researches about what the country wants. “They should ask and make their researches on what the country wants, what the people want. If they listen to the people, we will be confident that they will listen to us when they get there.” On insecurity, Kumuyi commended security agencies for their efforts, but said more should be done to improve the situation. “In every area of life, I will say there’s room for improvement. I want to credit the officers who are putting their lives on the line to secure the whole country,” NAN quoted him as saying. “We should pray for them that God will give them more wisdom and visible victory. “I will be praying for everyone at the end of every ministration for their desires, aspirations and blessings. “God is our Creator. Whether we are Muslims or Christians or whatever religion you belong to, we are creatures of God. God is interested in blessing everyone. I am here to be a blessing to everyone. “There will be empowerment programme for all youths across religious divides as it is meant to redirect the focus of youths for positive future endeavours.”