The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has asked Ibrahim Muhammad, chief justice of Nigeria (CJN), to “immediately address” the issues raised by the justices of the supreme. In a letter addressed to the CJN, 14 justices of the apex court accused Muhammad of abandoning his responsibilities as the leader of the court. Some of the issues raised by the justices include — accommodation, transportation, electricity tariff, supply of diesel, internet services to justices’ residences, training for justices and epileptic electricity supply to the court. The justices said following the complaints raised earlier in the year, and “after several persistent requests” to hold a meeting which was finally held on March 31, a “welfare committee” was set up to aggregate the issues. But responding through his spokesman, the CJN said the circulation of the letter by the justices is akin to “dancing naked at the market square”. In a statement issued on Thursday, Debo Ologunagba, PDP spokesperson, said the judiciary will be made negatively affected if the issues raised are not attended to. “The failure of the CJN to address the weighty issues contained in the said protest letter reveals that there is a systemic design by the APC-government to ensure that the Judiciary is stifled and handicapped to deliver on its constitutional duty as an independent arm of government,” the statement reads. “Our Party holds as outrageous that instead of personally addressing the issues raised, the CJN rather allowed his media aide to respond to the revered Justices of the Supreme Court via a press statement in a manner that shows impunity and utter disregard to the Justices and the Institution of the Judiciary. “The evidence of this systemic emasculation of the Judiciary is manifest in the unrelenting intimidation and harassment of judges; the vicious midnight attacks orchestrated and unlawful removal of judicial officers and disabling of the independence of the judiciary by the APC administration. “The plots by the APC to cripple the operations of the Supreme Court as uncovered in the conditions described by the Supreme Court Justices confirm a malicious design by APC leaders to subvert our judicial system so as to cover their atrocities against Nigerians.” The PDP also asked the CJN to ensure that the issues raised are adequately addressed. “Our Party, therefore, demands that the CJN immediately and personally address the issues raised by the Justices especially those that border on allegations of corruption and underhand dealings,” the PDP said. The opposition party also said the CJN “must not by any means sweep these weighty allegations and issues under the carpet”, adding that “this is the only way to assure Nigerians that the judiciary under the CJN Tanko Mohammed is indeed the hope of the common man in the impartial dispensation of justice”.