Stella Oduah, senator representing Anambra north, says Chukwuma Soludo, governor of the state, will support the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) legislative candidates in the 2023 elections. Soludo is a member of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). Oduah said this at an event in Abuja where she and 29 other national assembly and state assemblies candidates were handed the PDP certificates of return. They had won the party’s tickets to contest in the 2023 elections. According to the legislator, Soludo will support the PDP candidates because they have the capacity to deliver, adding that the party will defeat other political parties in the state. “About six of us are sitting members in the national assembly and about six as well for state assembly. The rest are new people, but with wonderful antecedents,” she said. “We are not jittery that the Labour Party is coming into Anambra. It is not the first time new parties are coming into Anambra. We have people with capacity and antecedents of performance. When you have those two, what do you have to fear? You don’t have to fear anything. Politics is local. What we are contesting for is to represent our people to ensure that we continue doing the good work we have been doing. “They know we are performers. So they cannot leave what they know to go to what they do not know. Our campaign is going to be what we have done, what we are doing and what we are going to do. Labour cannot say that. Labour is in anticipation of what they might do. So you do not have a comparison. We are not jittery at all. We are more than capable and we are going to defeat LP. “On how we get along with the governor of Anambra state, we get on very well. First of all we are brothers and sisters. He is our governor no doubt about that. But you are talking about legislative elections. He will support us for the simple reason that he knows our capacity. “In fact in Anambra north and south today, the jobs, roads, water and light you see are the ones that the legislators were able to attract and the governor knows that in collaboration with us, the state would be better off. So it is not about him, it is not about us, it is about the people we represent. So the governor will work with us and we are working together for the benefit of our people. “What we want is to have the Igbos participate at the national level. Now the candidate that would take us to that level clearly has to be at the majority party. We are the majority party. Also speaking, Vincent Ofumelu, lawmaker representing Oyi/Ayamelum federal constituency, they were voted by the delegates because they lived up to the expectations of the constituents. “It is not about whether the delegate system favoured us. When they were electing the delegates, I was not there. I allowed them to choose whoever would be the delegates, but I knew they would vote for me,” he said. “It is the antecedents. It is things I have done for the constituencies and the things I am still doing and the ones I would still do. They know I have them in mind. We are going for this war without fear or favour. We are going there without looking behind. Forward ever backward never. I know that our good people, which we have served very well, would still repeat to assist us and vote us in to succeed again in 2023 election.”