The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) says its operatives intercepted over 10,000 tramadol tablets and destroyed a cannabis farm in Edo state. Femi Babafemi, NDLEA spokesman, disclosed this in a statement issued on Sunday. “Anti-narcotic officers in Edo have intercepted 10,280 tablets of Tramadol, 2,000 tablets of Diazepam, 300 tablets of Swinol, 5,000 tablets of Axol and 10 bottles of Codeine based syrup in Irrua area of the state,” the statement reads. “While they also destroyed 5.301,713 hectares of cannabis farm in Oke forest, Ovia North East LGA, as part of efforts to disrupt all cannabis planting activities for the season in the state.” Babafemi added that a Congolese and a Nigerian were both arrested in Lagos by NDLEA operatives for allegedly attempting to export illicit drugs out of Nigeria. “A Nigeria-based Congolese, Kandigu Kadi, and a Nigerian, Makowulu Ebuka Anthony, have been arrested by operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, NDLEA, at the NAHCO and SAHCO export sheds of the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Ikeja, Lagos, for attempting to export controlled and illicit drugs to the United States of America and Dubai, United Arab Emirates,” the statement reads “While Kandigu was arrested on Tuesday 31st May at the NAHCO export shed for attempting to export 2.100kilograms of pentazocine injection, Makowulu was nabbed on Friday 3rd June in connection with attempt to export parcels of cannabis sativa concealed in cereals packs to Dubai through the SAHCO cargo shed.” According to Babafemi, Makowulu was caught with eight parcels of cannabis weighing 2.90kg, and concealed in cereal cartons, as part of a cargo meant for different people in Dubai. In Yobe, the NDLEA said its operatives raided Tsohuwar Kasuwa area of Potiskum town, where an alleged notorious drug dealer identified as Usman Alhaji, a.k.a. NEPA, was arrested and 22 blocks of cannabis sativa recovered from him. Meanwhile, in Abuja, Babafemi said a raid across the federal capital territory (FCT) resulted in the arrest of 39 suspects. The raid, which he said will continue across Abuja, is a joint operation by the FCT command of NDLEA and the task force.