John Akpanudoedehe, former national secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) caretaker committee, has defected to the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP). Akpanudoedehe announced his resignation from the APC in a letter dated June 4, 2022, and addressed to party chairman of ward 6 in Offot, Uyo, the Akwa Ibom capital. “I write to notify you of my resignation from the All Progressives Congress (APC), forthwith. Henceforth, I cease to be a member of the APC in my ward (ward 6 in Uyo LGA) or anywhere for that matter. I hereby relinquish all rights which inured to me as a member of the APC, member of the National Advisory Council and member of National Caucus of the APC,” the letter reads. “This decision to part ways with the APC is a tough one, but leadership entails adherence to the wishes of the vast majority of associates, allies and supporters who have shown fidelity overtime and have now witnessed the obduracy of the APC in handling the Candidates Selection processes in Akwa Ibom State. “Our greater goal of providing service to the people of our dear state remains sacrosanct.” However, Akpanudoedehe has secured the ticket of the NNPP as the party’s consensus governorship candidate for Akwa Ibom in the 2023 elections. In his acceptance speech at the governorship primary organised by the Akwa Ibom chapter of the NNPP on Monday, the former APC caretaker committee national secretary thanked the party for finding him worthy of the ticket. “For what you have done today, you have become the number one party in Akwa Ibom state. You are going to the government house with me. Just like Kwankwaso, Udoedehe is a movement. I want to thank you for electing me,2 he said. “You have been in the struggle like me. So, therefore, adding me and you together, it’s a win already. If you have never been serious, please, be serious. You have to be serious. To take power from a sitting government is not a tea party.” Meanwhile, the development comes weeks after Akpanudoedehe announced his intention. to run for governor of Akwa Ibom on the APC platform.