Again, Nigeria’s electricity grid has collapsed, causing a blackout in states across the country. Major electricity distribution companies (DisCos) in the country notified their respective customers of the development on social media. In a Twitter post, Kaduna Electric said the national grid collapsed around 6:47 pm on Sunday. Power Outage In Our Franchise Due To Grid Collapse. Dear Esteemed Customers, We regret to inform you that the power outage being experienced in our franchise states is due to System Collapse of the National Grid. — Kaduna Electric (@Kadunaelectric) June 12, 2022  “Dear esteemed customers, we regret to inform you that the power outage being experienced in our franchise states is due to system collapse of the national grid,” the management said. “The collapse occurred at about 18:47 pm this evening hence the loss of supply on all our outgoing feeders. Power supply shall be restored as soon as the national grid is powered back. Our sincere apologies for any inconvenience.” Also, Jos DisCo appealed to its customers for their understanding and cooperation regarding the power outage. “The management of Jos Electricity Distribution Company Plc wishes to inform the general public that the current outage being witnessed is a result of system collapse,” a statement issued by Friday Elijah, head of corporate communications, reads in part. “We hope to restore supply as soon as supply is restored.” On its part, the Enugu Electricity Distribution Company Plc (EEDC), said the system collapse led to the shutdown of its outgoing feeders, thus disrupting supply to customers in Abia, Anambra, Ebonyi, Enugu, and Imo states. “We are on standby, awaiting further information on the restoration of supply from the national control centre,” it added. Similarly, Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) posted on its Facebook page, informing customers of the development. “Dear esteemed customer, we regret to inform you of the system collapse from the national grid,” EKEDC said. “This has affected our entire network and impacted our ability to deliver optimum service. Please bear with us as we are working with our TCN partners on a swift resolution.” The Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC), which oversees Abuja, Kogi, Nasarawa, and Niger states, also posted a similar message on its Twitter page on Sunday night. Dear Customers, this is for your information.#AEDC #Abujadisco #Gridoutage pic.twitter.com/7hSsjC7ULb — aedcelectricity (@aedcelectricity) June 12, 2022  This is the second grid collapse in Nigeria in less than three months, the last being in April 2022. You can read more on what it means when the national grid collapses here.