Ike Ekweremadu, a former deputy senate president, has formally withdrawn from the Enugu governorship race. TheCable had reported how the governorship hopeful pulled out of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) primary election held in Enugu last week. Charles Ogbo Asogwa, director-general of Ekweremadu’s campaign organisation, had said the senator would imminently announce his next decision. In a statement announcing his formal withdrawal from the race on Thursday, Ekweremadu congratulated Peter Mbah who won the party’s governorship ticket in the state. The senator said he was prepared for the governorship race and presented a roadmap of what he intends to achieve. “Unfortunately, as we were doing these, some of our compatriots were busy conspiring and planting landmines to frustrate our rescue and transformation mission. We have witnessed betrayals and a high level of ingratitude on this journey,” he said. “I think we have fought a good fight to redefine governance in our dear state. It is time to review this journey and take a well-considered decision for the unity of our state. We have succeeded in opening the political space for greater participation. “We have raised the consciousness of our people and opened their eyes to positive possibilities. Although these possibilities are today dimmed by fraudulent political practices, the light will never go out and we hope to rekindle the light by mentoring our youth in good governance, responsible political participation, and the finest practice of democracy. “Therefore, after consulting widely with the elders of our party as well as well-meaning friends and respected elders across the country and beyond. “After a long and painstaking introspection on our contributions to the development of the PDP. After considering the current security situation in the south-east region and the need not to put anybody in harm’s way by a foreseeable combustive political environment, my ambition is not worth the life of any Enugu son or daughter. “After considering that the things that hold us together as Ndi Enugu will ultimately outlive the treacheries of the moment. After receiving assurances from the gubernatorial candidate of our party, Barr. Peter Mba, that he would integrate our “Pathway to a New Enugu State” in his programme and his assurances of the participation of everybody in his campaign team and government. “I, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, hereby formally withdraw from the 2023 gubernatorial contest in Enugu State. I congratulate Barr. Peter Mba and wish him success.” Ekweremadu had joined the governorship race despite the zoning arrangement in the state. Party stakeholders had agreed to zone the governorship ticket to Enugu east after the tenure of Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, the state governor, who is from Enugu north. But Ekweremadu kicked against it and described the zoning arrangement as a “treachery of politics”. His position pitted him against the governor and other party stakeholders in the state.