Ejike Mbaka, spiritual director of Adoration Ministries, Enugu, Nigeria (AMEN), has apologised over the remarks he made about Peter Obi, presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP). The cleric had on Wednesday described Obi as “stingy”, asking his followers not to vote for him in the 2023 presidential election. Mbaka’s comment had elicited widespread criticism from many Nigerians as well as the Enugu Catholic diocese. Reacting to the blowback, Mbaka asked for forgiveness from Obi’s supporters and noted that he was misunderstood. Mbaka said the former Anambra governor is his “friend and brother” and he wishes him success in his political sojourn. “I am a servant of God and my intention is not to malign His Excellency, Peter Obi’s image, but to pray for him,” the cleric said in a statement posted on his church’s Facebook page on Friday. “May God’s will be done in his life. I pray to God whom I serve to give our beloved people good and excellent leaders who will take care of them and lead them to the promised land. Anyone who God wishes to make our Leader is my choice. “In this vein, I give my blessings to the supporters of His Excellency Peter Obi. In any way they feel offended by my utterances or however I was misunderstood by them, I ask for their understanding and forgiveness. As a servant of the Most High God, I pray that it shall be well with my people. I am an ardent supporter of Good Governance, Justice, Equity, Love and Godliness. “My intention is not to fight or malign Mr Obi. May God bless him and his good supporters. God’s will be done in his political endeavours (Mk.14:36). “The followers of Peter Obi are the same youths I am praying for, sacrificing for, fighting for, speaking for and working for their integral well-being. What the youths are passing through and their conditions give me sleepless nights. It is for this reason that I yearn for good governance and worthy leaders that will take care of them. We are passing through indescribable, unbearable and undeserved hardship in this country. I pray for divine intervention. “I am not in any political party but I support good people and good governance. Any good person that God can give us is my choice candidate. I am a servant of God; For the sake of peace, I ask for forgiveness in any way I am misunderstood.” Mbaka added that he will be praying for Obi and will ask God to “manifest his will in his life”.