Babajide Sanwo-Olu, governor of Lagos state, says his administration has matched words with achievements in three years of governance. Sanwo-Olu spoke on Sunday during the third anniversary thanksgiving service of his administration, held at the Chapel of Christ the Light, Alausa, Ikeja. Represented by his wife, Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, the governor said he is grateful for the mercies, protection, wisdom and understanding of God that helped him in steering the administration in the past three years. He said the most important thing is that despite the challenges, his administration has been able to fulfil its promises, especially in the implementation of the THEMES agenda and other things promised to residents of the state. “Despite all the challenges faced in the recent past by this administration, we were able to record unprecedented achievements as far as the implementation of our THEMES agenda,” he said. “This administration has been able to achieve other lofty programmes we promised Lagosians three years ago. We were able to match our words with achievements.” He said the achievements recorded were as a result of the cooperation and support of all residents, as well as the intercessory prayers by men and women of different faiths. Sanwo-Olu asked residents to continue to rally around the government, especially as the 2023 elections approach. “Let me at this juncture express our appreciation to all Lagosians for your support, cooperation and prayers in the past three years, which also contributed to our achievements,” he said. “We want more of your support as we approach 2023 elections, which by the special grace of God, myself and Dr Kadiri Obafemi Hamzat, would be participating as governorship and deputy governorship candidates of our great party, the All Progressives Congress, for another term of four years in office. “By the grace of God, I assure all Lagosians that better times lie ahead.” Earlier in his sermon, Sunday Onadipe, bishop of the diocese of Badagry, Methodist Church Nigeria, said the achievements recorded by Sanwo-Olu confirmed that he has great initiatives to make Lagos greater. According to him, Sanwo-Olu is an epitome of good leadership. Onadipe said the achievements were possible because the governor also acknowledged God as the prime mover of his administration. The clergyman asked the governor to continue to pray, to ensure good governance and the security of lives and property. In April, the Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state endorsed Sanwo-Olu for a second term in office.