Abdullahi Adamu, national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), says the ruling party must do all within the law to win the Osun governorship election. Adamu spoke on Thursday, in Abuja when he inaugurated the 86-member campaign council for the Osun election. The Osun governorship election is slated for July 16. Adamu said although winning the election may be a little more difficult than the Ekiti governorship poll, the party is certain of victory at the end. “No stone must be left unturned. We must do all within the law to win. My tolerance level and that of the party’s national working committee for failure is zero,” he said. “Nobody should come back crying. We must win Osun.” Adamu said the Ekiti and Osun governorship elections would prepare the ground for the party’s victory in the 2023 elections. He said Nigerians have chosen the APC as their preferred party, hence the need for the leadership of the party to measure up. “We have Asiwaju Bola Tinubu as our 2023 presidential candidate, these elections are first step to 2023, we must start preparing for 2023 now, we must show our capacity,” he said. “There is no option to winning the national election and these state elections are like I said, forebears to the national election. “We must show those who love us by showing those who are our adversaries in the strongest possible way that we are in control. “No apologies to anybody, we are the party in government. The reality is that Nigerians had chosen the APC and we will do everything we can to retain this position of envy.” He urged the campaign council to show commitment in its assignment. “We are winning the battle of the states, but the real war to be won is the presidential election in 2023. And I do hope that we will not spare efforts to ensure that we come back victorious,” he added. Commenting, Abdullahi Ganduje, governor of Kano and the co-chair of the council, appreciated the APC NWC for the appointment. Ganduje said reconciling all aggrieved party members in the state is important, and called for unity among all stakeholders for victory in the Osun election. “The Peoples Democratic Party may have money bags, but we have strategy bags to win the election,” he said. The 86-member campaign council is chaired by Babajide Sanwo-Olu,, governor of Lagos.