President Muhammadu Buhari has assured members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) that their grievances concerning the party’s primaries will be addressed and justice will prevail. Femi Adesina, presidential spokesman, in a statement on Tuesday, said Buhari spoke at a meeting with some APC senators on the outcome of the party primaries and its implications. Buhari was quoted as saying complaints from some members have been received and that machinery has been put in place by the national working committee (NWC) of the party to address their various concerns. The president said the healing process within the party has started to ensure fairness, justice and oneness before the 2023 elections. “I must acknowledge that in every contest, there must be a level playing ground just as there would be grievances at the end. That is the test of our democratic credentials, systems and practices,” Buhari was quoted as saying. “I have, since the conclusion of the processes, been inundated with various reports and complaints. “I must also remind you of the primacy of justice in all our actions. If justice is denied, the outcome is usually unpleasant. “This is because you are the members who keep the party running. I should add that as part of the policy of using the party machinery for effective resolution of conflict, the Chairman and some members of the National Working Committee visited the National Assembly recently to dialogue with our legislators. “The leadership of the party is currently addressing the outcomes as part of the way forward. I am encouraging all the party functionaries to adhere to the truth and to be fair to all parties in any dispute. “Justice shall prevail, aggrieved members shall be assuaged, and the interest of the party and the nation shall be protected.” Buhari also told the APC senators that the strength and victory of the party in the 2023 elections will depend on unity of members and ability to prevent injustices or heal them, “perceived or real”. “As the leader of the party, one of my primary roles is to ensure that our culture of internal democracy and dispute resolution is strengthened by creating the opportunity for members to ventilate their opinions, views and grievances at different levels,” he said. “I have noted your grievances particularly as it concerns the just concluded processes, the cost to the nation, the threat to the majority position held by our party in the legislative chambers and likely consequent cost to the electoral fortunes of our party as we approach the general elections. We must not allow these dire threats to come to pass.” The president urged party members to exercise restraint and continue to demonstrate commitment to the ideals of the party, while the leadership continues to build and develop the APC and the country. According to the statement, in his remarks, Orji Kalu, senate chief whip and leader of the delegation, said at least 22 senators and members of the party are unhappy with the outcome of the primaries in their states, noting that they felt disenfranchised by the process. He, however, assured the president and the party of the lawmakers’ support. 