Babajide Sanwo-Olu, governor of Lagos, says the decision to ban commercial motorcycles locally known as ‘Okada’ in the state was not easy while seeking re-election. The governor said this on Thursday at the maiden summit on non-oil exports organised by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) in collaboration with the Bankers’ committee in Lagos. Sanwo-Olu said it was not an easy decision to have the policy of banning okadas during a period when he is seeking to be re-elected. While explaining the purpose of the ban, he said such a critical decision was only made for the best of the people and not a political action. “For us, as a government is to continue to be able to come up with policies and programmes that will ease doing business in our state and our communities,” he said. “And so, when we took the initiative to say we also wanted to ban okada a couple of weeks ago, people never believed that it was meant to happen. It was going to be a thing that we can do. I want to thank all of you for the support we’ve recorded so far. “But I want to assure you that the things that we have seen will continue in the momentum and we can take that part of the nuisance we have in the city. We can take it away finally, and we can have a smooth movement of goods or services in Lagos without any hindrance of okada. “It’s not too easy. When in a political terrain, especially when you’re going for re-election and like I said, you are jumping up and down. You have to make a decision that is so critical like that, and stay within because indeed a lot of people believe that everything that politicians do must have a political meaning but sometimes, we stay with our words and indeed believe the need to ensure that you know that people benefit from it greatly.” Last month, the Lagos state government announced the ban on okada operations in six LGAs of the state. Local government areas affected by the ban include Ikeja, Surulere, Eti Osa, Lagos Mainland, Lagos Island and Apapa. The ban took effect June 1.