Governors elected on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have congratulated Ifeanyi Okowa, governor of Delta, for his selection as the party’s vice-presidential candidate. Atiku Abubakar, PDP presidential candidate, had on Thursday, named Okowa as his running mate for the 2023 general election. Atiku selected Okowa despite the national working committee (NWC) recommending Nyesom Wike, governor of Rivers, for the position. The PDP presidential candidate had said he chose Okowa because the Delta governor meets “all or most of the qualities” he desires. In a statement issued on Thursday night, Aminu Tambuwal, governor of Sokoto and chairman of the PDP Governors’ Forum, said Okowa has “what it takes” to be vice-president. “The PDP-GF notes in particular that the PDP Presidential Candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar,  GCON, promised to select a serving PDP Governor as his running mate, ostensibly not just because of the contributions of the Governors to the effective running of the Party and its stability, but because of their  experience and executive capacity. He kept his word,” the statement reads. “Governor Okowa has distinguished himself as Governor of Delta State. He also has cognate legislative experience as a former Senator. He has what it takes to be an effective Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “The great task of recovering, rescuing and rebuilding Nigeria begins with the Atiku / Okowa ticket. The APC has completely messed up Nigeria. It has failed in all aspects of governance;  insecurity, bad economy, dysfunctional education, health and social services are the hallmarks of the APC administration.” Tambuwal added that the Atiku/Okowa ticket will defeat the APC in 2023. Similarly, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, apex socio-political organisation in the south-east, hailed the selection of Okowa as the opposition party’s vice-presidential candidate. Chiedozie Ogbonnia, Ohanaeze spokesperson, described the Delta governor as an “astute administrator, sagacious politician, brilliant physician, creative visionary, prudent resource manager, detribalised patriot, purveyor of morals and a poster personality”. According to Ohanaeze, Okowa’s candidacy will add “enormous electoral value” to the PDP in the 2023 elections.