Omotola Akinsanya, a 31-year-old woman who was reportedly hit by John Greg, a Lebanese motorist in Lagos, has died. On May 4, Omotola was reportedly hit by a car driven by Greg at the Victoria Island axis of Lagos, while the Lebanese driver was driving against traffic, also known as one-way, at top speed. In Lagos, driving against traffic, popularly known as one-way driving, is an offence liable to three-year jail term and forfeiture of the vehicle. The incident caused damage to the victim’s leg, and she was admitted at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH). Greg was said to have fled the scene after the incident but was chased down and subsequently arrested by the officers of the Lagos police command. Benjamin Hundeyin, spokesman of the Lagos police command, in a statement, had said an investigation jad commenced into the incident. On Monday, a family member of Omotola, who didn’t want to be named, told TheCable that the victim died on June 9 — days after the deceased’s left leg was amputated. “Several surgical operations were carried out on Tola’s leg before the left leg was amputated. Immediately after the incident happened, she went through eight-hour surgery,” the family member said. “The last surgery was the amputation of the left leg. Even LASUTH did not manage the case well. They neglected the girl and they were collecting close to N250,000 daily for ICU and services. “Imagine that kind of amount for one month plus. If you calculate it, you will know how much we have spent. After infection started affecting the leg, LASUTH said they had to amputate the leg. “She did not come out of the amputation surgery conscious and she died after like seven days after the amputation at LASUTH. “The Lebanese guy did not come to the hospital or offer a dime for the treatment of Tola. We were told he was granted bail of N1 million by the court. The family needs justice.” ‘WE’LL RE-ARRAIGN MOTORIST FOR MANSLAUGHTER’ Hundeyin told TheCable on Monday that Greg has been granted bail by a magistrate court and that the police will re-arraign him on amended charges to include manslaughter since the victim has died. “The case is already in court. All that we will do now is to amend the charges to read manslaughter since the lady is dead,” the Lagos police spokesperson said.