A federal capital territory high court sitting in Wuse zone 2 has directed that the two children of Osinachi Nwachukwu, the gospel singer who was alleged to have died of domestic assault, will testify wearing blindfolds. The gospel singer, who passed away on April 8, was initially thought to have died of throat cancer. But associates claimed it may be connected to an assault by her husband, Peter, who was later arrested. The federal government had filed a 23-count charge against Peter. At the court session on Tuesday, Aderonke Imana, prosecution counsel, told the court that Osinachi’s twin sister and her children will be called to testify against the defendant. She prayed the court to protect the children by blindfolding them and putting them in shield while they testify. She further prayed the court to direct non-parties in the suit to vacate the court when the children are to testify. “The first application is predicated on the provisions of sections 156 and 158  of the Child Rights Act, we hereby apply that all the other persons in this court that do not fall under the category under the law should vacate this courtroom in the interest of the children who are our witnesses for today,” she said. “Our second application is predicated on section 209 of the Evidence Act and section 169 of the Child Rights Act. We are applying that the persons who are under 18 should give unsworn evidence. “Our third oral application is based on section 2(1) of the Child Rights Act. We hereby apply that the child witnesses be brought into the court with a blindfold and be shielded with a screen, in the cause of giving witness.” N.K. Nwosu-Iheme, the presiding judge, granted the application sought by the prosecution. “Having considered the application, I hereby ordered that parties to the case, parents or guardians should observe the testimony. Therefore, all other members of the public and the press shall be outside,” the judge ruled. “The children shall be blindfolded and shielded while giving their testimony.”