Atiku Abubakar, presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), says actions are being taken to address the grievances of party members. In a series of tweets on Thursday, Atiku said all party members, including governors “are much loved and respected” by him. “The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will remain united. Focus on our actions. We are taking action to address the feelings of all party members,” the former vice-president tweeted. “The unity in our community is my priority. Our resolve to unify Nigeria starts in our party and moves to the community, then on to society. “Every Governor, Legislator, and other elected officials produced by our party, and party members and loyalists, are much loved and respected by me. “When they speak, I listen. I do not only listen. Appropriate actions have been taken, are being taken, and will continue to be advanced.” Samuel Ortom, governor of Benue, had expressed reservations over Atiku’s decision to name Ifeanyi Okowa, governor of Delta, as his running mate instead of Nyesom Wike, governor of Rivers, whom the party’s national working committee (NWC) recommended for the position. Wike came second in the party’s presidential primary election which took place in May. Ortom had said he was “fasting and praying” for divine guidance before deciding to support Atiku’s candidacy. “All of us have our weapon; Wike can be ‘something something’ but when it comes to mobilisation, impact, value addition and reaching out to make sure that the party works the man is an instrument. He’s somebody who stood for the party and made sure that things worked. Some of us believed in him, but unfortunately, it was somebody else. But the party is supreme,” he had said. “However, some of us have resorted to prayers. I have been in hibernation. We’ve resorted to prayer: ‘Lord God, where do we go from here.’ I believe as a Christian that power belongs to God. The Bible says a man can receive nothing except it is given to him from above.” Atiku said conciliatory effort is in progress, and that he has heard the concerns of party members. ”When they speak, I listen. I do not only listen. Appropriate actions have been taken, are being taken, and will continue to be advanced,” he said.