The zone 2 command of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF), which consists of Lagos and Ogun, has warned business owners against falling prey to fraudulent online transactions. Hauwa Adamu, public relations officer of the zone, issued the warning in a statement on Monday. She said the police has received several reports of people falling victim to fraudulent online transactions in recent times. “It is to inform the general public, especially businessmen and women, on the illicit and fraudulent manner through which criminals operate and their modus operandi,” the statement reads. “Series of petitions have been written to the Assistant Inspector General of Police in charge of the Command, AIG Adeleke Adeyinka, that fraudsters now sought businessmen and women who advertise their goods through various social media platforms. “They also sought for potential buyers of such goods. “The criminals will contact dealers, who advertise such goods on social media platforms, and act like genuine buyers while they order for goods in large quantity. “They also act like genuine dealers to their prospective victims and give about three per cent to five per cent discount in order to entice their prospective victims. “Upon indication of interest, the prospective buyer will be lured into making payment. “Having made payment, the fraudsters will then give instruction to the dealer on the other hand to load the quantity of good requested by the victim with the pretext that payment will be made and confirmed on delivery before offloading of the goods. “When it has been confirmed that goods have arrived destination, the fraudster then goes incommunicado. “The driver will be the one having issues with the victim who already made payment and has been expecting delivery of goods paid for. “This is always done mostly on Fridays to prevent any kind of banking system retrieval. “Based on the above, the Command is sending this to the general public as awareness; so, no one will fall victim of the antics of fraudsters who pretend as business clients.”