Yewande Sadiku has been appointed as the head of investment banking international at Standard Bank. This was confirmed in a statement on Wednesday by  Gert Vogel, chief executive, Standard Bank, and Brian Marshall, the group head of investment banking of the institution. The role, which is based in London, is to take effect from September 12, 2022. Prior to Sadiku’s appointment, she was the executive secretary and chief executive officer of the Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC) from November 2016 to September 2021. Sadiku was also appointed to the Flour Mills of Nigeria Plc (FMN) board in February this year. “Her role at NIPC is on institutional reforms aimed at strategic investment promotion and embedding a culture of governance and proactive accountability,” FMN had said. TheCable checks showed that under Sadiku’s leadership, NIPC improved in ranking from 90th (2016) to 1st (2021) in the Freedom of Information (FOI) rankings for compliance and transparency. More so, under her stewardship, NIPC’s internally generated revenue also increased from N296 million in 2016 to N3.06 billion in 2020 of which over 50 percent of the revenue was remitted to the consolidated revenue fund. Sadiku has an in-depth experience of over two decades in the investment banking sector; led a multi-disciplinary team, and managed key relationships with regulators — Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Nigeria,  Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), among others. She rose through the ranks of the Investment Banking and Trust Company Limited (IBTC) from entry-level in January 1996 to become chief executive of Stanbic IBTC Capital, the group’s investment banking arm in November 2012 before becoming the CEO of NIPC in 2016. In 2021, as CEO of NIPC, Sadiku and some other officials of the commission were accused of mismanaging public funds. However, she was cleared of all corruption allegations filed by the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), after there was no evidence to the claims.