Shina Peller, a member of the house of representatives, has joined the Accord Party. Peller announced his decision on Tuesday during the plenary at the green chamber. On June 17, the lawmaker, who currently represents lseyin/ltesiwaju/Kajola/lwajowa federal constituency, resigned his membership of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Citing reasons for dumping the APC, the federal lawmaker said the party’s style of democracy “kills my conscience”, adding that he has realised that youths will continue to be at the mercy of the few at the top. Giving reasons why he joined Accord Party, Peller said the party is the first to zone Oyo north senatorial ticket to Oke Ogun because the Ogbomoso zone has done two terms. The federal lawmaker added that the internal democracy mechanism of the Accord Party is “intact”, compared to other parties. “After my exit from the APC, we engaged with other political parties. We had numerous options, but we opted for Accord for very peculiar reasons,” Peller wrote on Facebook. “Accord Party happens to be the first party in Oyo state to zone Oyo North Senatorial ticket to Oke Ogun considering that Ogbomosho Zone had done two terms. “The party has shown an unwavering commitment to the yearnings of the people of Oke-Ogun. It has given us hope and a sense of belonging. “In Oyo State, the Accord Party is a force to reckon with, its internal democracy mechanism is intact, a component lacking in other parties. “The Accord Party is also strategic as it concerns balloting. On the ballot paper, Accord comes first before the two major parties. With Accord as our party, voting sensitization becomes easier for us to do. “Today, I would like to inform the general public that I am now with the Accord Party. The logo of the Accord constantly reminds me and other well meaning Nigerians of their civic responsibility – to vote for credible leaders.” In May, Peller, who currently represents lseyin/ltesiwaju/Kajola/lwajowa federal constituency, lost the APC Oyo north senatorial primary, after he polled five votes. The eventual winner, Abdulfatai Buhari, the current senator representing Oyo north, scored 570 votes.