The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) says its operatives intercepted parcels of methamphetamine, popularly called ‘mkpuru mmiri’, at the Lagos airport. Femi Babafemi, NDLEA spokesperson, said this in a statement on Sunday. The items were reportedly concealed in cornflakes packs and body cream containers and were to be exported to Malaysia and Australia. Also said to have been seized were 225mg of tramadol worth N200 million, imported from India, and parcels of cannabis weighing 16.5kg. “Two freight agents, Nneji Anoma and Etoh Barnabas, involved in the bid to export nine parcels of Methamphetamine weighing 1.45kg hidden in packs of cornflakes to Malaysia through the NAHCO export shed of the MMIA on Wednesday 15th June 2022, have been arrested,” the statement reads. “Another consignment of 10 cartons of Tramadol 225mg packaged as Tramaking containing 500,000 tablets with a total weight of 407kg and an estimated street value of two hundred million naira (N200,000,000), have been seized during a joint examination with the Customs at the NCS warehouse. “The consignment, which had arrived at the SAHCO import shed on 6th June from India via Ethiopian Airlines, was eventually transferred to the NDLEA by Customs on Wednesday, 15th June. “The previous day, Tuesday 14th June, a similar joint examination with Customs at the Customs enforcement terminal, Tincan seaport, Lagos, led to the seizure of 33 parcels of cannabis indica (Colorado) weighing 16.5kg. The drug exhibit was recovered from a 40-foot container, TRHU 7874497, containing four vehicles. The cannabis, coming from Montreal, Canada, was discovered in three out of the four vehicles in the container. “In the same vein, operatives of the Directorate of Operations and General Investigation, DOGI, at the Agency attached to a courier company have intercepted a kilogram of Methamphetamine concealed in body cream containers heading to Australia.” Babafemi also said the operatives arrested members of drug cartels across six states. “Meanwhile, the drug cartels also suffered losses in other operations across Adamawa, Borno, Kogi, Ogun, Zamfara and Taraba states,” the statement reads. “A notorious drug dealer, Abdullahi Musa, a.k.a. Yerima Uding, wanted for some past attacks on officers and men of the agency was in the early hours of Thursday 16th June arrested in Hong town, Adamawa State. “The 53-year-old suspect was caught with 57 blocks of compressed cannabis sativa, concealed in the boot of his ash-coloured Toyota Corolla car with reg. no. GMB 185 MF. “He has been fingered as the mastermind of the mob attack in Hong on 6th October 2020 that led to the death of an NDLEA operative and another officer now bedridden due to permanent incapacitation. “In Borno State, another drug dealer, Umar Musa, was arrested in Tashan Kano, Gwoza LGA, on Thursday 17th June with 8,000 capsules and tablets of Tramadol weighing 4.550kgs, while 32.182kg cannabis was seized by NDLEA operatives along Okene/Abuja highway, Kogi state from a commercial bus travelling from Lagos to Abuja. “Following credible intelligence, operatives also arrested one Nwanbunike Chibuike, 22, with 19,576 tablets of Exol-5, Diazepam, Tramadol and Rohypnol as well as 7.9 litres of Codeine at Ogere, Ikenne LGA, Ogun State on Wednesday 15th June. “In Zamfara, a consignment of 11,660 tablets of Hyponox and 6,000 ampoules of pentazocine injection was recovered from a drug dealer, Success Amaefuna, at Tsafe area of the state on his way to Sokoto state, while 5,000 tablets of Tramadol were seized from Darius John Mbugun, 33, who ordered the consignment from Onitsha, Anambra State. “The drug exhibit was concealed in a bag of garri for distribution in Gembu, Sardauna LGA, Taraba state.” According to the statement, Buba Marwa, chairman of the NDLEA, commended officers of the agency for their efforts, and urged all commands of the agency to remain vigilant and intensify action against drug cartels in the country.