Babajide Sanwo-Olu, governor of Lagos, has approved an increase of N100 for fares of Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) buses for all routes. The fare increase will take effect from July 13. Kolawole Ojelabi, assistant director, corporate communication of Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority (LAMATA), disclosed the development in a statement on Thursday. According to Ojelabi, the decision to hike the fares was reached owing to the rising cost of diesel and the high number of buses out of operation due to the lack of spare parts. He added that Sanwo-Olu has also approved a proposal of a bail-out for the bus operating companies in a bid to minimise the effects of the harsh operating environment. “To sustain the operations of regulated bus services in Lagos State, the State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has approved a flat rate increase by N100 in bus fares for all Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) and standard routes,” Ojelabi said. “The increase, which will come into effect on Wednesday, 13 July 2022, is aimed at ensuring sustainability of the BRT and standard route schemes. “Operations of the transport scheme, of late, had been hampered due to rising cost of inputs required for sustainable service offering and the attendant high number of buses out of operation as a result of lack of spare parts. “For instance, the exponential increase in the pump price of diesel from N187 to N830/litre between August 2020 and June 2022, had greatly affected optimal performance of the bus operating companies leading to the withdrawal of buses from operation and longer waiting time at bus stations. “The governor in consenting to the fare increase also approved a proposal for a bail out for the bus operating companies in other to cushion the effect of the harsh operating environment and safeguard private partnership investment and forestall the demise of formalized bus operations in the state. “With the increase, a bus ride from Ikorodu – TBS will now cost N600 from N500 while Berger to Ajah is now N700, up from N600. Oshodi to Abule Egba will cost N450 from N350 and Abule-Egba-CMS-Obalende will attract a fare of N600.” The governor also approved the conversion of diesel buses in operation to the use of compressed natural gas (CNG).