Teen Ambassadors Foundation (TAF), a non-governmental organisation, at the weekend, organised a medical screening in the federal capital territory (FCT). The medical intervention was held in Kado community, Life Camp in Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC). The medical professionals — doctors, nurses, laboratory scientists and pharmacists — who were on the ground, offered screening and treatment for malaria, typhoid, peptic ulcer, urinary tract infections, hypertension, diabetes, skin diseases, treatment and vaccination for hepatitis B and C infections, as well as pelvic inflammatory diseases to residents in the community, including women and children. Chinyere Donatus whose child benefitted from the free medical service for Down’s Syndrome, thanked the NGO for the therapy. According to Donatus, her previous attempts to get medicare for her child were fruitless because of a lack of funds. She added that the foundation’s intervention is succour for her child’s health challenge. Paul Adiwu, chief executive officer (CEO) of the foundation, said the free medical services are part of TAF’s social responsibility programme. He said the gesture which is the second being executed by the organisation is aimed at assisting the poor and needy, adding that the target is to reach all the states in the country. “I am doing this out of community service and not out of any political gain. I am from Plateau state and not FCT so this is purely my own way of giving back to the society,” he said. “I know my origin and I think when you remember where one is coming from, you don’t have a choice but to complement government efforts in things like this. “We want to have these outreaches across the federation. So we are having one location per state. The first one was in Nasarawa and it was a success. “This time around we came up with vaccination for hepatitis. We are trying to improve on what we are doing. Every community is in need and you cannot be everywhere at the same time but we would continue to do our best and continue improving every time. “The mission of Teen Ambassadors Foundation is to work on areas that are related to the sustainable development goals and health and wellbeing are part of that. “We also support child education and provide scholarships. We want to educate the teenagers and catch them young.” Danlami Audu, village head of the community, said foundation’s health intervention is a relief to the residents. While commending the organisation, Audu called on highly-placed individuals in society to imitate TEEN’s gesture by embarking on humanitarian services. Dalhatu Musa, commissioner for FCT in the Public Complaints Commission (PCC), said the foundation’s effort has complemented government effort in health development in the community. “In the PCC we receive a lot of complaints that have to do with the deficit in health infrastructure. We thank TAF for this gesture which would help to address such issues,” Musa said. “We will continue to partner with the organisation and ensure the support is timely in a manner that would be accommodating to all.”