BlackHouse Media (BHM), a Lagos-based reputation management and marketing communications firm, has been ranked as the third fastest-growing agency in Asia-Pacific, Middle East, and Africa (APMEA), according to PRovoke’s Global PR Agency Rankings, ‘Fast Mover 2022’. BHM is also the only Nigerian agency to make the cut. According to the ranking published recently, South Africa’s Razor topped the list after growing by 185 percent, followed by Malaysia’s VoxEureka (+174 percent), and BHM in Nigeria which grew 87 percent to rank third. Speaking on the accomplishment in a statement on Tuesday, Ayeni Adekunle, BHM’s founder, said the company remained committed to doing more to help its clients succeed, empowering people, and making the world understand Africa better. “Our immediate focus is on building on this success as we recognise there is still a lot of work to be done for Africa to attain its full potential as a global force,” he added. BHM, in the statement, said its position on the ranking comes after it grew by 87 percent in the last year despite a global economic downturn. It explained that its performance was driven by a broad range of capabilities, including in-house content studios, software engineering, proprietary product development, own media brands, issues management, customized events, and regional advisory. “In 2022, BHM’s analytics capabilities were rewarded with the Diamond SABRE for MTN’s stakeholder engagement efforts and the most awards for a Nigerian agency at the SABRE Africa Awards,” the statement further reads. “BHM has also received applause for eye-catching work for Coca-Cola’s World Without Waste initiative, Big Brother Naija, the Global Day of Influence, and Project Safe-Up.” Describing itself as a “people-first and inclusive company”, BHM said employee compensation has grown by 192.16 percent since 2020, when the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared COVID-19 a pandemic, with benefits including unlimited leave days, and full work flexibility. TheCable had reported that BHM recently extended the scope of its annual PR report to cover all African countries.