Families of passengers abducted from an Abuja-Kaduna train in March, have asked the federal government to put in more efforts to secure the release of the captives. On March 28, 2022, gunmen attacked a passenger train in Kaduna, killed eight people, injured many, while over 60 persons were abducted. On June 11, 2022, 11 of the 61 remaining victims were released “following negotiations”. Addressing journalists on Thursday in Kaduna, Abdulfatai Jimoh, who spoke for the families of the victims, called on security agencies to hasten the process of securing the release of the remaining abductees in line with the latest directive by President Muhammadu Buhari. “Since this dark day of 28th March, 2022, only 11 people out of the abducted citizens have been reunited with their families leaving behind 50 innocent Nigerians in the hands of their abductors under horrible conditions of living,” Jimoh said. “Our hearts were gladdened on Tuesday, 21 June, 2022, when Mr. President issued fresh orders to security chiefs to spare no effort in freeing the remaining 50 hostages alive and in the shortest time possible. “Our joy will know no bounds if this presidential directive is given accelerated action that results in a positive outcome.” He said that those still in captivity are “living under horrendous conditions, with many of them sick, with poor medical care, in addition to poor nutrition, environmental hazards and more frighteningly living in perpetual fear of threat to life”. “These conditions have led to deteriorating health status, both physical and psychological of the hostages, and it calls for urgent rescue efforts,” he added. “We cannot wait to see the end of this nightmare. While we had expected all the women and children — 22 people in total — held hostage to have been released in the first phase of the negotiation with the abductors, we are glad to receive the 11 persons now rescued,” he said. “But our joy will only be complete when all abductees regain their freedom.” He commended the efforts of security agencies, the federal government, as well as organisations and individuals who contributed to the success of the first phase of negotiations. “We learnt that negotiations are ongoing for the second phase and we hope and pray that this phase will be final phase to bring this sad incident to a joyful closure with the release of the remaining 50 captives and in the shortest time possible,” Jimoh said.