Buba Galadima, a former ally of President Muhammadu Buhari, goofed during an interview with Channels Television. Speaking when he featured on Political Paradigm, a Channels TV Programme, Galadima said Rabiu Kwankwaso, former governor of Kano, is the man to beat in the 2023 presidential election. He said if Kwankwaso is elected as president in 2023, Nigerians will enjoy development, peace, and security. He said Kwankwaso made a lot of developmental strides while he was governor, adding that the former governor made Kano look like Dubai with the infrastructural development he put in place during his tenure. He said Kwankwaso never took a loan from a bank to finance the projects while he was governor of Kano. Galadima said he was ready to issue a cheque to back his claim and challenged any bank that feels otherwise to come out with proof. He, thereafter, dipped his hand into his pocket to bring out the cheque, but ended up bringing out some cash. “What Kwankwaso has put in place in Kano that makes it look like Dubai, except that Ganduje destroyed it,” Galadima said. “During Kwankwaso’s time, you approach Kano from the air, you’d think maybe you lost your way to London or Paris. If you’re coming from the far east, from Europe, you may think that you are in Sao Paolo or Rio de Janeiro. “I’ve not spoken about physical development, I’ve just spoken about one aspect of Kwankwaso’s development– human resource development, education. So, if Kwankwaso becomes president, in all these things he did, he never borrowed one Kobo from any bank in Nigeria and go and find out that in Kwankwaso’s last four years as governor of Kano if he ever borrowed one penny from any bank, let the bank come out. I will give you a cheque now (brings out cash as cheque book).” On his credibility on how he switches from one political party to another and how he is viewed as a “chameleon”, Galadima said he is not bothered about what people say and that he will always support who can do the job. He said he stopped supporting Buhari because the president said he would not seek reelection. “I shifted grounds because Buhari told the world, as an honourable man, that he will not seek reelection. So I looked for an alternative to support. So I supported Kwankwaso,” he said. “And it is our general observation that both the APC and PDP hate him just because they are jealous of his political prowess, popularity, his acumen in mobilising, articulating, networking people and he is a man of the people. “They are also jealous of his performance while in public office because no Nigeria in the past had performed one percent of what Kwankwaso had done. None of them has got his credentials. No Nigerian politician is worth more than 40 percent of Kwankwaso’s political CV. “Kwankwaso is the talk of the town, the man to beat. And that places NNPP as first force not third force because it is about population. “Politics is about numbers and we have got the numbers because every common man follows Kwankwaso in Nigera. Every patriotic Nigeria, in my opinion, would follow Kwankwaso.”