Ansaru militant group has reportedly banned political activities in some communities in Birnin-Gwari LGA of Kaduna. Ansaru fighters are said to have bases in the LGA. In a statement issued on Sunday, Ishaq Kasai, chairman of Birnin-Gwari Emirate Progressives Union (BEPU), said the group regularly recruits young residents and marry young girls. According to Kasai, Ansaru banned political activities in many communities in the eastern part of Birnin-Gwari LGA. “In fact, the group continue to gain acceptance from many members of the communities, particularly in old Kuyello and Damari communities in Kazage Ward,” the statement reads. “The Ansaru and the recruits are of the belief that their numerical strength will help them to bring the present democratic government down. “Presently the Ansaru are going round  distributing memory cards to the locals which contains their beliefs and doctrine. “A disturbing scenario is where the group banned all political activities in many communities such as Damari of Kazage Ward. “Politicians from these communities have to go far away secretly to the neighbouring communities before they hold political meetings. “For instance, this week an Okada rider who lives in Unguwar Makera of Kazage Ward was seen with a sticker of one of the candidates vying for the Kaduna State House of Assembly and he was thoroughly beaten by the Ansaru.” “People in these communities are now disenchanted and frustrated about participating in political activities. “We don’t know how the coming elections will take place in those areas because even the last Local Government election in Kaduna state did not hold in those communities due to the escalating insecurity. “In short, the Ansaru are now in charge of many of the communities in the area and the group is expanding its occupation. “The terrorists now call the shots and determine what is to be done in the villages they are dominating.” In May, the group reportedly began massive recruitment of residents in the LGA. They were also said to have distributed Sallah gifts, a five-page pamphlet titled; ‘We are not Boko Haram but Ansaru’, flash disks and other items to entice residents to join them.