Four Chinese and several workers have been reportedly abducted by gunmen at a mining site in Ajata Aboki village in Shiroro LGA of Niger state. The incident was said to have occurred around 4pm on Wednesday. Emmanuel Umar, commissioner for internal security and humanitarian affairs, confirmed the abduction in a statement on Thursday. Umar said many of the joint security operatives mobilised to the area sustained injuries, adding that the number of casualties is yet to be confirmed. He said some of the gunmen were killed during the rescue effort, and that some security operatives were rescued and taken to a government medical centre for treatment. “Niger state government wishes to confirm that on 29/6/2022 at about 1600hrs, based on a distress call received that armed bandits/terrorists invaded a mining site located at Ajata Aboki village via Gurmana Ward of Shiroro LGA and a joint security team were mobilized to the scene in response to the distress call,” the statement reads. “Consequently, the joint security team engaged the terrorists and there were yet to be determined number of casualties from both sides. “However, a yet to be ascertained number of workers in the mining site including four Chinese nationals were reported to have been abducted. “Security forces mobilized reinforcement for the manhunt of the remaining terrorists as some of them were neutralized and rescue of the injured victims including security personnel that sustained various degrees of injuries have been taken to a government medical facility in the state for treatment. “While the Niger state government commiserates with the heads of security agencies in the state and the families of the slain personnel, the state government assures that their sacrifices will not go in vain. “The state government acknowledged all the efforts of the joint security operatives and that of the communities in the State towards taming the spate of insecurity in some parts of the state, hence, security personnel are enjoined not to be discouraged in discharging their sacred duties of protecting citizens against all forms of threats as government will continue to be steadfast in providing them with the needed support in all ramifications.” The commissioner added that the governor ordered the security agencies to go all-out to ensure that the gunmen are arrested and the abducted victims rescued.