Ahmed Makarfi, a former governor of Kaduna, says Nyesom Wike, governor of Rivers, should not be blamed for feeling bad over the decision of Atiku Abubakar to pick Ifeanyi Okowa as running mate. The national working committee (NWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) had reportedly endorsed Wike as the vice-presidential candidate, but Abubakar later picked Okowa, governor of Delta. Samuel Ortom, governor of Benue, has since expressed reservations over the PDP presidential candidate’s choice. Speaking on Thursday with journalists in Kaduna, Makarfi said Abubakar and Wike should have a sit-down and talk over the issues that led to the choice of Okowa. “I won’t blame Wike for feeling bad because he has been one of the pillars of the party,” the former governor said. “Let the presidential candidate, Atiku, sit down with Wike to discuss issues because he is the only one that knows why he picked his running mate. The matter is resolvable.” Makarfi added that his party would return to power in 2023. “We have learnt our lessons and we will do more than we did when we are in power,” he said. “As long as elections will be held in 2023, PDP will win, but we need to work hard for us to win in 2023. PDP is set to bring true democracy back to Nigeria and we have learnt our lessons.” He also refuted rumours of a purported move by him to dump the PDP for the All Progressives Congress (APC). “Honestly, I am hearing this for the first time that I am defecting from PDP to APC and I don’t know what can be the basis. Why should I make an investment in terms of time and whatever you can mention in PDP and now decide to leave?” Makarfi asked. “Why should I go through the stress and just when we are getting it right, then I now leave the PDP for APC or any other party? “What will be the attraction for me to leave the PDP? Well, people don’t approach me with such a rumor because they know the type of person that I am. “If they want to come, they come to me with substance. What could be the basis? In every rumour there must be a basis. Is it because members of the opposition party attended my son’s wedding and that is the basis of that rumour?”