Amarachi Eze, twin sister of Osinachi Nwachukwu, the gospel singer who was alleged to have died of domestic assault, says her sister was a victim of domestic abuse. The gospel singer, who passed away on April 8, was initially thought to have died of throat cancer — but her death is now being considered as alleged homicide. The federal government had filed a 23-count charge against Peter. Testifying before the court as the third prosecution witness on Tuesday, Amarachi insisted that her sister did not die of ulcer or cancer as claimed by Peter Nwachukwu, the singer’s husband who is being tried over alleged homicide. “It is the beating by Peter that killed my sister and not ulcer,” she said “Osinachi said she doesn’t know why he beats her the way he does and that when he wants to beat her, he uses his leg to kick her and beat her on the chest. “Even while at the National Hospital, Peter brought the test result and showed it to my sister saying she does not have cancer. My sister started dancing.” The 42-year-old Amarachi, who is also a gospel artist, said she never visited her sister’s matrimonial home until she died. She also said while Osinachi was pregnant with her first child, Peter beat her until she was admitted in a hospital in Enugu. Amarachi said a nurse at the hospital called her at about 2am the next morning, saying the defendant had taken Osinachi out of the hospital without proper medications administered. She said on one occasion, her sister called to say her husband beat her up with a mop stick and broke it on her. Peter was also alleged to have gone as far as removing Osinachi’s name from the list of visitors in their children’s school. Narrating further, Amarachi said even while her sister was admitted at the National Hospital, Abuja, the husband continued his hostility toward her. The twin sister said she had to travel to the hospital on March 23, after her sister begged her to come, adding that Osinachi was on and off oxygen while on bed rest as a result of the trauma she went through. She said she wasn’t allowed to sleep at the hospital with her sister and that Osinachi cried a lot during her visits. Narrating her last moment with the deceased singer, Amarachi said she hugged her sister three times and said “I love you, mama” before leaving the hospital to return to Enugu.