The Ebonyi state government says it stands with Ike Ekweremadu, former deputy senate president, amid the allegation of organ harvesting. On Thursday, the London Metropolitan Police arrested and charged Ekweremadu and his wife, Beatrice, to court for allegedly bringing a child to the UK for organ harvesting. According to the police, the investigation was launched after detectives were alerted to potential offences under modern slavery legislation in May 2022. Ekweremadu and his wife were subsequently remanded in custody until July 7 pending further investigation. TheCable subsequently reported that the former senator had written to the UK high commission to support a visa application of a “donor” listed as Ukpo Nwamini David. In the letter, Ekweremadu said Ukpo was undergoing “medical investigations for a kidney donation to Ms Sonia Ekweremadu”. Uchenna Orji, Ebonyi commissioner for information, said the state is following the turn of events and is making efforts to contact Ukpo’s family members, who are from the state. “While we urge the UK government to act progressively and meticulously and critically look at the intention (mens rea) and the minds of the detained family and please give them the benefit of the doubt, we enjoin the public, especially those with shades of opinions and surge of anxieties to remain calm as we hope to see light at the end of the tunnel,” the statement reads. “The state government is reaching out to the family of David Okemini Ukpo from Ebonyi state, whose information to the Metropolitan Authority of UK orchestrated the criminal charge against the distinguished senator and his wife. “The state government stands with Senator Ike Ekweremadu at this trial moment and hopes that the truth and nothing but the truth shall guide the outcome of the matter.” Although the police had said the donor was 15, data from his international passport indicate that he is 21 years old. According to information on the passport data page of Ukpo, he was born on October 12, 2000. The date of issuance of the passport was listed as November 4, 2021, which is a few weeks before Ekweremadu wrote to the UK high commission in respect of the medical visa application. A check on the Bank Verification Number (BVN) portal also showed Ukpo’s date of birth as October 12, 2000.