BY ABDULKARIM MAHAMOUD A nation that has stayed so fragmented on religious account for seven years now cannot but erupt any time the issue of religion crops up on the front burner. So, it is not surprising that tension is bound to flare after it emerged lately that a Muslim, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who became the presidential flagbearer for All Progressives Party, is set to pick a fellow Muslim as his running mate ahead of next year’s election. Although it has yet to be officially confirmed, the debate generated by what looked like tell-tale signs with regard to where Tinubu would pick his running mate has assumed a disturbing trend. The somewhat eternal suspicion between Muslims and Christians in Nigeria has also not helped matters, and it is no surprise that the heat wave continues to spread across the country. It could well be reasoned among some people in the country that a Muslim-Muslim presidency ticket holds no disadvantage, especially as far as quality governance can be guaranteed. But the gross lack of trust among adherents of both faiths tends to highlight more disadvantages than advantages. As political consideration comes into reckoning, however, it is the returns at the poll that would matter in the end and whoever can guarantee the returns must be considered. Besides, history also supports a Muslim-Muslim ticket, going by the June 12 1993 presidential election in which southern Muslim Moshood Abiola and northern Muslim Babagana Kingibe swept the poll in unprecedented fashion to set a record of free, fair and credible election in the country. Nonetheless, it is also trite to say 1993 is not 2022 and although the Abiola-Kingibe success at the poll resulted from harmony between Muslims and Christians, so much has happened between then and now between both faiths, which tends to put their differences beyond reconciliation, at least in the nearest future. A swift reaction by the leadership of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has revealed a lot about the aforementioned suspicion between both faiths. CAN’s National Secretary, Barrister Joseph Bade Daramola, issued a stern warning against the Muslim-Muslim arrangement, describing it as “a threat to the fragile peace and unity of Nigeria”. Short of delving deeply into the prevailing politics to drive his association’s point home, Daramola urged that a balance of both religious practitioners be considered in the choice of running mates of the presidential candidates, insisting that CAN “does not subscribe to Christian/Christian ticket or Muslim/Muslim ticket.” As far as CAN is concerned, the body’s national secretary said emphatically: “Politicians can talk politics but we have stated our view long before now. Any party that tries the same religion ticket will fail. This is not 1993. Even when we have joint Muslim/Christian ticket, the church still goes through hell. Imagine how bad it will be if we have two Muslims in power.” Daramola also drew strength from the Nigerian constitution whose extant provision promotes religious balance. Then he hit the home stretch with this warning: “So, if any political party wants to try Muslim/Muslim ticket, it is at its own peril. CAN is only forewarning, but will make a categorical statement in the event our warning is not heeded.” He went ahead to delve deeper into the political terrain: “Tinubu’s running mate should be a Christian from the north while Atiku’s running mate should be a Christian from the South. Anything contrary to the above means that the leadership of these political parties do not bother about the unity of Nigeria.” Those who are planning Muslim/Muslim ticket should also find out what was the outcome of MKO Abiola and Kingibe ticket in 1993. If they try Muslim/Muslim ticket this time around, the outcome will be worse because our fault lines are very visible.” He also spoke of how the CAN leadership had cried in vain to ask President Muhammadu Buhari to break the monopoly or dominance of the security architecture with people of the same faith, saying the failure of Buhari to see reason with the Christian body led Nigeria to the dreadful situation it is in at the moment. No one would doubt that Daramola has further highlighted the suspicion that has reigned between the major faiths, especially as the fear of marginalisation has not been as high as fear of islamisation. Other Christian leaders of thought have expressed similar reservations, although some of them have spoken more out of seeking political relevance and have not addressed the real issues beyond stoking the suspicion further. Former secretary to the government of the federation, Babachir Lawal, tended to stoke the suspicion than quell it. Hear him: “I live among the Christians, and I know that among the Christians, the question of Muslim-Muslim ticket is a no-go area; it is dead on arrival.” Lawal is said to be an ally of Tinubu and there are reports that he considers himself a capable running mate to the APC flagbearer, although he has denied the reports. There has been some arguments proffered for a Muslim-Muslim ticket. One of such arguments is that it is bound to attract large votes from northern Muslims who are in the majority out of trust for the candidate based on religious affinity. However, selling such idea to the northern Christians is sure to be a tall order, especially as the Christians have suffered persecution in the hands of Muslims for years on end, supporting the argument that the idea is dead on arrival. Not even if the Muslim-Muslim ticket bearers possess a track record of religious tolerance, kindness and sensitivity towards the Christians would they be trusted across the country. It is just what it is. Indeed, it is such that whichever political party wants to lose an election woefully at this time should risk field two Muslims and get its reward accordingly. And why should a northern Christian not even be accepted as running mate to a southern Muslim in the present-day Nigeria? After all, the late Sardauna of Sokoto and Premier of Northern Region, Sir Ahmadu Bello, a devout Muslim, was reputed to be accommodative of Christians during his time when religious harmony was so resounding in the north. As a fact, the late Aro of Mopa, Chief Sunday Awoniyi, a devout Christian, served Sir Ahmadu Bello as his secretary and both were so close that there was not a single decision taken by the Premier without the inputs of Awoniyi who, to this day, is regarded as trusted ally of the Sardauna. Of course, it has to be said that the corporate existence of the north and the entire people of Northern Nigeria were of the highest priority to Awoniyi all through his lifetime, although he hailed from the Yoruba-speaking north central state of Kogi. It is also an undeniable fact that Nigeria as a country has especially since 1987 suffered persecution borne by religion and as festering as the wound that has resulted from the persecution, it cannot be healed by a Muslim-Muslim presidential ticket. The international dimension to the Muslim-Muslim presidential ticket in Nigeria at this particular time is also worth a look-in, in view of the trust to accrue to the country from its neighbours. The security threat that Nigeria has continued to endure has direct bearing with religion, specifically with the activities of Islamic terrorist groups. The implication of the ascension of a Muslim-Muslim presidency can only be imagined in terms of perception by the neighbouring countries with regard to their own security. Without any fuss whatsoever, a Muslim-Muslim presidential ticket can be likened to a time bomb whose explosion would not only prove terminal for Nigeria but would also have spiral effect on the sub-region and the continent. Mahamoud lives in Lafia, Nasarawa state.