Deji Adeyanju, a political activist and convener of Concerned Nigerians, a group, says Bola Tinubu, presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), needs to explain his source of wealth. Adeyanju spoke recently at an online interview programme — 90MinutesAfrica — which was hosted by Rudolf Okonkwo and Chido Onumah. On June 8, Tinubu was declared as the APC presidential candidate after he scored 1,271 votes to defeat 13 other presidential hopefuls in the election. The candidacy of Tinubu has come under scrutiny in some quarters, with questions raised on his financial capability as well as his health status. Speaking during the online conversation, Adeyanju said “Tinubu, like Buhari, is a medical tourist”. He also questioned the source of Tinubu’s wealth, saying the APC presidential candidate must tell the public about his business interests. “Before anyone says Tinubu is ready, money for money and dollar for dollar, they need to ask which company has he created or what is his source of income,” he said. “What goods and services does he offer? How can somebody just suddenly have so much money that bullion vans can no longer contain it?” However, Alex Kabba, publisher of African Abroad-USA newspapers, said the former Lagos governor played an important role in the fight for democracy during the military regime. Kabba added that Tinubu has paid his dues, saying that he is 100 percent in support of the former governor’s presidential bid. “The left movement in Nigeria has always been in political doldrums. I have always been praying that we have a man like asiwaju who can match the right-wing politicians money for money, resources for resources, and influence for influence,” he said. “Many people that are benefitting from this democracy today were quiet when asiwaju fought for it. We are not going to cook our food and give it to strangers. “So, whether it is a Muslim-Muslim ticket, I don’t care. Power has to be fought for. So, if it is a Muslim-Muslim ticket that will give the presidency to Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, I am 100 percent in support of it, even though I am a Christian.”