The campaign organisation of Nicolas Felix, a presidential aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has congratulated him on his 41st birthday anniversary. Felix had contested in the presidential primary election of the APC earlier in the month, but lost the ticket to Bola Tinubu, a chieftain of the party. A US-based Nigerian pastor of the Miracle Church International, Felix was the youngest aspirant in the election. In 2019, the Edo-born politician was the presidential candidate of the Peoples Coalition Party (PCP) and he came third after President Muhammadu Buhari and Atiku Abubakar. In a statement on Friday, Edith Atele-Ozor, media director of the campaign organisation, described Felix as a child of destiny who challenged the status quo in the Nigerian political space. “To find self and discover purpose in life is the true quest of every great man. But to transcend that phase and become a builder of men and nation is true genius. You, your excellency sir, are true genius and a rare gem,” Edith said. “Happy birthday to an enigma, an entrepreneur, a philanthropist and a scholar who took over the Nigeria’s political space by storm at a time when many within his demography are incapacitated by the schenanigans of the bourgeois class. “As a child of destiny and like the proverbial David and Goliath, Dr. Nicolas Felix dares the supposed high and mighty and challenges the status quo in Nigeria’s political arena. “True to your nature as a philosopher king, you have built men and women and given them capacity to thrive. Your works of charity and care for the vulnerable in society sets you apart from the average Nigerian leader and politician. “Your capabilities as a builder have been tested and proven over and over again, as even in a strange land, you built empires from little or nothing. Your passion and love for Nigeria is 2nd to none. It’s like a raging fire in your soul that keeps you coming back and spending your hard-earned resources to build a better Nigeria, without any ‘godfather(s)’ bankrolling you. You are indeed a blessing to Nigeria and Nigerians. “Happy birthday to an OUTLIER, a selfless leader whose love for the Nigeria project is unmatched. May the Supreme Almighty God crown all your efforts with success and with your contribution, may Nigeria become a country where dreams do come true.”