The Defence Headquarters (DHQ) says its troops have rescued six victims from captivity in Zamfara. The development follows the ongoing offensives launched by the military against criminals across the country. Bernard Onyeuko, director of defence media operations, in a statement on Thursday, said the military and other security agencies have recorded significant successes within the last few days. Onyeuko said the troops of operation Hadarin Daji, on June 21, engaged gunmen at Rafin Dankura in Bakura LGA of Zamfara. He said the encounter led to the rescue of six kidnapped civilians and killing of two bandits in the process. According to him, items recovered included two AK-47 rifles, 36 hand grenades, two cell phones and the sum of N211,915. The defence spokesman said troops also “killed two terrorists at Maigora in Faskari LGA of Katsina state on the same day and recovered cache of weapons”. He also said troops of operation Whirl Stroke, on June 20, arrested Ardo Maranewo, a gun runner who had been on the wanted list of security agencies. According to him, the suspect is a specialist in selling and leasing arms and ammunition to bandits and kidnappers in Taraba. “Furthermore, troops on patrol along Udei-Markurdi-Lafiya road arrested seven rail track vandals with a trailer registered ABJ KWALI 846 XBJ, loaded with cut to size vandalised rail tracks and sleepers,” the statement reads. “They are Terswoo John (40), Donald Kperuv (30), Abraham Tinde (25), Jamilu Danlami (20), James Yandela (29), Idris Usman Imam (32) and Abubakar Adamu (30). “Also, on June 21, troops raided a kidnappers’ enclave at Maraba in Ukyonugu Ityuluv Ward in Ukum Local Government Area of Benue and arrested one Ichen Igbaka (65), a bandits’ collaborator, and his wife, Mrs Salomi Gbaka. “Their house was used by a late bandit leader, Mr Azu, as a hideout. “Suspects and items recovered are in custody for further interrogation.” Onyeuko further said troops of 151 task force battalion under operation Hadin Kai, on June 20, killed two gunmen in an operation involving the Civilian Joint Task Force (CJTF), along the Bama-Pulka road in Borno. He added that troops also arrested Abacha Usman, identified as a Boko Haram member, at Benishek, while one Ibrahim Gira, identified as a Boko Haram logistics supplier, was arrested along Damboa-Biu road in Borno on June 21.