Hawwah Gambo, an aspirant seeking to represent Chikun/Kajuru constituency of Kaduna state under the African Democratic Congress (ADC), says she is unhappy with the “deplorable” state of her constituency. In a statement declaring her candidacy, Hawwah said despite the constituency being represented at the national assembly since 1999, the “business as usual” representatives have only served self interests. “Visiting my constituency makes me cry because of its deplorable condition and high level of insecurity,” the statement reads. “For years, I have asked myself what I should do to reduce the unfortunate circumstances brought upon us by those meant to mitigate our sufferings. “The incoming 2023 elections presented an answer to this question, as I have come to understand that ‘the only way to dethrone evil is not to stand aloof with arms akimbo, but to contest against it’. “For this reason, I have chosen to contest for the 2023 House of Representatives Election under the umbrella of African Democratic Congress (ADC), so that I can have the opportunity to alleviate the pains of my people, and finally put a stop to the culture of deprivation instilled on us by those who pretend to be our friends.” Gambo said as a means to improve the circumstances of her constituency, she had engaged it through journalism, and being the voice of many helpless women, orphans and children in the last two decades. “But there comes a time when the civil society involvement or being the watchdog of the society, no longer works, except one becomes a key player in the field. That moment came and I responded to the inner call to dare against all visible odds,” the statement reads. “As a woman, and an individual with no money to throw around, I have been told that this journey is an impossible mission, but my people have suffered enough. And I do not need money to stop that pain. “All I need is their support in proving that anybody can be anything they want to be if they dared to dream. I believe in dreams because our dreams are valid. “I call on the good people of Chikun/Kajuru Federal Constituency to prove their detractors that dreams do come true!”