The Plateau command of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) says it has seized over 2,000 kilogrammes of drugs in the state from January to date. Umar Yahuza, NDLEA commander in the state, said the confiscated drugs included cocaine, cannabis sativa, tramadol and other illicit substances. “We have recorded tremendous successes from January to this moment; we have seized over two tonnes, almost two and a half tonnes of illicit drugs,” he said. “The breakdown is as follows, out of this almost two and a half tonnes, we have seized cannabis sativa which on the street we call ganja or ‘wee-wee’. It accounts for the largest seizures; it accounts for over 1,986 kilogrammes, that’s almost two tonnes. “Then we have the psychotropic substances, which includes drugs like pentazocine, tramadol, diazepam, and so on. This group of psychotropic substances from January to this month, we have seized over 231 kilogrammes. “Cocaine seized from January to date, accounts for 233.3 grammes, we have another drug of methamphetamine. We have seized 126.2 grammes of amphetamine which gives us a grand total of two tonnes 341.986kg of illicit drugs seized in plateau from January to this moment.” Similarly, Yahuza said the command had arrested 290 suspected drug addicts and peddlers in the state within the period under review. He added that his men also arrested suspects with other prohibited items and have handed them over to relevant authorities for prosecution. “As for the suspects we have arrested so far this year, we have 267 males, 23 females, which gives us a total of 290 suspects,” he added. “And these people have been charged to court and they are at various stages of prosecution. Added to that, in the course of our activities, we have come across people with other prohibited items. “For example, we arrested this young woman with about 2500 fake currency dollars, and she was handed over to the Nigerian police force for further action.” On efforts to curtail the influx of illicit substances into the state, the commander said much is being done in terms of public enlightenment and sensitisation to garner the cooperation of the public.