Bola Tinubu, former governor of Lagos, has described the killing of worshippers during Sunday service in Owo, Ondo state as “pure evil that should never have happened to innocent people”. Many people were killed and several injured during the attack at St Francis Catholic Church in Owo. In a statement by Bayo Onanuga, spokesman of his campaign organisation, Tinubu said the murder of people who came to worship God, for no just cause, was an unimaginable evil and wickedness of the highest proportion. While sympathising with the government and the people of the state, Tinubu called on the security agencies to do everything necessary to hunt down the perpetrators and bring them to justice. “I condole with the people of Owo Kingdom, the government, and people of Ondo State over this sad occurrence,” the statement reads. “My heart is especially broken for the family and friends of those who were brutally killed and many who have been hospitalised. I pray for the repose of the souls of the departed and pray to God to comfort their family and loved ones. “Security agencies must unravel the cause of this evil and ensure those behind it are fished out on time and brought to account for their evil action. “This affliction visited on peaceful people of Owo must never go unpunished. The violent violation of rights of our people to life must be stamped out with all the power of the state. I call on both the Federal and State Government to ensure this grievous offense does not go unpunished”. In a related development, Atiku Abubakar, former vice-president, also condemned the attack. Atiku, in a series of tweets, called on the Ondo government and security agencies to leave no stone unturned in bringing the killers to justice. “I condemn the attack on the St Francis Catholic Church, Owa-luwa Street, in Owo council area of Ondo State capital. My prayers are with the people of Owo, especially families of the deceased,” Atiku tweeted. “I do hope that the state government and relevant security agencies will leave no stone unturned in apprehending the criminals and bringing them to justice. I condole with the body of the Catholic faithful in Nigeria. “I pray that someday, very soon, we shall have a lasting solution to these painful episodes.” Also condemning the attack, Peter Obi, former governor of Anambra state, asked all Nigerians to join hands to save the country from the “existential situation we have found ourselves”. “What happened in Owo today again adds to my position that our country is fast becoming a failed state. All must now join hands in saving our country from this existential situation we find ourselves in today,” Obi said. “I sympathise with the victims’ families, the Catholic Diocese of Ondo, the people and the Government of Ondo State. I urge the Federal Government and Ondo State Government to do whatever is possible to ensure that perpetrators of the dastardly act are brought to book.”