Communication remains an essential part of the human experience when passing across vital information and getting a negotiation of what matters to us. Confucius has said that Not to discuss with a human worthy of conversation is to waste the human. To discuss with a human not worthy of conversation is to waste words. The wise waste neither men nor words. Being an important aspect of life, it’s only second nature that we find ways to attain some measure of mastery, become more comfortable, more effective, and attain the unique ability to reach our important life goals through it with anyone, anywhere around the globe. Technology has since been a coredriving factor that makes communication much more natural and efficient, such as the use of smartphonesand tablets. As humans, we must find ways to share intelligence through effective communication in the workplace, which is jugular to the success of any and all business operations seeking inclusion. In several cases, AI has continued to improve business communications to transform whole industries and the roles of employees within them. The world today is rife with tools and apps with cross-platform compatibility, that enablesswift and effective communication through all departments of a business. Imagine a world in which you could sit down with your mobile device or computer, tell it what topic you wanted to write about, and have an AI tool do all the research and writing for you. That world is not as far off as you might think – thanks to the rapid advancements being made in the field of artificial intelligence, software that can generate written content is becoming more and more sophisticated. In this article, we’ll explore how AI is changing the landscape of content generation and communication. Moreover, if you’re a content creator, there’s a good chance you’ve already used some form of artificial intelligence (AI) to help with your work. Whether it’s using a grammar checker to fix errors or using predictive text to help finish your sentences in emails, AI is becoming increasingly commonplace in the world of written communication. Today, AI is being used to create entire pieces of content on its own. This is thanks to advances in natural language processing (NLP), which is the branch of AI that deals with understanding and generating human language. Furthermore, there are already a number of AI-powered content generation tools available (through web platforms and clouds), and their capabilities are only going to increase in the future. This means that anyone who wants to stay ahead of the curve needs to start getting familiar with how AI can be used to create better content – like with this write-up, having up to 60 percent AI-generated content. One major way that AI revolutionizes content generation and written communication is through automated intelligent content generation. In addition, there are myriads of advantages to engaging AI-enabled applications in written communication. Some of these benefits include, the automation of the decision-making process, saving a lot of time and money, generating real-time customization, and increases return on time investment. As mentioned above, there are already a number of AI-powered content generation tools available. These tools are able to create entire pieces of content on their own, based on a set of parameters that you provide to build the central theme, such as the title, and subheadings. This means that you can get high-quality content created quickly and easily. The AI revolution has definitely changed the game when it comes to content generation and written communication. With the help of AI, you can now create amazing and coherent thought trails that will wow your audience with how everything got pieced together. AI supports dictation, translation, and advanced research. You can use AI to help you come up with new ideas for your articles, and you can even use AI to help you improve your writing skills while simultaneouslygrowing your readership. However, we must realize that the future of original content creation is here, and it’s powered by artificial intelligence. AI-enabled content generation is revolutionizing the way we generate and consume written communication. From blogs to articles to social media posts, AI is making it easier than ever to generate superior-quality content that engages readers and drives traffic. If you’re a busy executive, blogger, or content creator, you can use some nice AI-infused tools to help you research topics, generate ideas, and even write anentire business presentation, blog posts, or articles. This frees up your time so you can focus on other aspects of running your business or life. And because AI-generated content is often of a higher quality than what humans can produce, you can expect to see an uptick in readership and engagement when you start using AI to power your content strategy. So what are you waiting for? Get on the AI content generation bandwagon and watch your audience grow! In addition, it is important to look at some great funding channels for your AI–enabled writing tool, as a business owner who wants to play in that space. Usage statistics reveal that AI will eventually replace human writers altogether and that some professions will no longer be needed in the near future. While this may be true to some extent, there are still many opportunities for human writers in the age of AI. One opportunity that has opened up for writers is the ability to create original content for writing tools that are powered by AI – writers and subject matter experts are employed to generate original content used to train various AI-driven platforms. These platformsare becoming increasingly popular and are used by business owners, government personnel, and individuals alike. Furthermore, if you are nursing a great idea for a writing tool that uses AI, there are many ways to get funding for it. One option is to apply for grants from organizations that support AI research and development – Google search can churn out a couple of these in a single well-tailored search. There are also venture capitalists and angel investors who invest in startups that are working on innovative applications of AI. If you have a great idea for an AI-powered writing tool, there is almost no shortage of potential sources of startup funding. Moreover, if you’re an entrepreneur trying to piece together a business presentation, content creator, or blogger, you know how important it is to have a growingand engaged readership. But sometimes it can be difficult to come up with fresh and interesting content (rid of plagiarism) that will capture your audience’s attention. AI becomes a natural go-to help when generating new ideas for presentations, and even writing the piece for you. That means more time for you to focus on other aspects of running your business or even just taking a break. And best of all, your readers won’t be able to tell the difference between a post written by AI and one written by you. There are already a number of AI-powered content generation platforms available, like Copymatic, Quill, and Narrative Science that help save time on content generation. So if you’re looking to give your written communication some boost, why not give one of them a try? You might be surprised at just how much of a difference AI can make. On top of that, one tool that has helped firm up my weekly articles is called Grammarly. Their products are powered by an advanced system that combines rules, patterns, and artificial intelligence techniques like machine learning, deep learning, and natural language processing to improve your writing. Grammarly has raised a total of $400m in funding over 3 rounds with their latest funding raised on Nov 17, 2021, from a Private Equity round. Not a bad amount for a company being funded by 8 investors, with Baillie Gifford and BlackRock, being the most recent investors. Grammarly is an AI-powered writing assistant that helps users to communicate more clearly and effectively. It has a very nice, clean, and intuitive dashboard that shows all the recent documents you worked on, your profile, and the apps you have integrated with as sources of input or data. Their dashboard allowsyou to perform proofreading that automatically detects grammatical errors, spelling mistakes, and style mistakes in your writing while offering suggestions in line with preselected writing tones. Another great tool is Sapling, which serves as an AI extension that makes grammar and autocompletessuggestions to help you create on-point messages and content. Sapling uses deep learning technology (similar to GPT-2/GPT-3) to provide the best recommendations.Sapling has raised a total of $4M in funding over 2 rounds, with their latest funding raised on Aug 13, 2019,from a Seed round. They are funded by 9 investors, and Kli Capital and Ellen Ma are the most recent ones. The final assistant I will look into is PaperRater, which is a web-based online grammar and spelling checker especially developed for students to review their papers. It offers students a suite of writing services, with robust grammar checking that helps in finding cheeky mistakes and its proofreading system provides suggestions to improve writing. In addition, the software offers immediate results using AI and Data Science in just 5-15 seconds – an amazing return time for plagiarism-free content. Some others are HubSpot, Concured, MarketMuse, and Cobomba. These intelligent tools help simplify our lives in many great ways, leaving us with ample time to do what is most important to us. Statistics show that we havemore than 7,100 languages spoken in the world today. Each and every one of them makes the world a diverse and beautiful place. Translation service will continue to be a requirement to piece through this potential diversity hurdle. An important phenomenon when building an AI system is to have it trained. The AI tools can be compared withchildren in some way. Kids improve on how they behave by observing the people closest to them which oftenleads to positive or negative reinforcement. As with children, if you want to mature your AI system, or make it more helpful and functional, you need to be deliberateabout what you expose it to and how you intervene when it does the wrong things. Basically, after training your solution or platform, byfeeding your platform with a bunch of characters, it tries to predict the subsequent characters depending on a probability distribution or a minimal loss of what it has been trained on. This prediction is then compared to your input and mismatches are marked as possible errors. In conclusion, I want to encourage African entrepreneurs, especially Nigerians (with over 500 languages) to create tools that offer web plugins on quality translation services for conferences, workforce, schools, and governmental agencies. The list and opportunities are endless, and so are the sources of funding. I will draw the curtain with Nelson Mandela’s quote If you talk to a man in a language he understands, that goes to his head. If you talk to him in his language, that goes to his heart. Thank you for the sustained investment in time. Please follow me on Medium: https://medium.com/@roariyo and LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/olufemi-ariyo-923ba6130/ or email me: techtalk@freesia.com.ng.