Aminu Achida, speaker of Sokoto house of assembly, and three chieftains of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, have defected to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The defectors were received by Ifeanyi Okowa, PDP vice-presidential candidate, in Sokoto, on Sunday. Those who defected to the PDP are Yusuf Suleiman, former minister of sports, Balarabe Salame, member of the house of representatives, and Abubakar Gumbi. Others who defected are Yusuf Kurdula, Bello Gada, Murtala Maigona, Jibril Gada. Receiving the defectors, Okowa said Atiku Abubakar, the PDP presidential candidate, has the ability and knowledge to solve the country’s numerous challenges. “Our party is working judiciously to salvage the country from its current challenges of insecurity and other numerous challenges,” Okowa said. “Atiku is the man to take Nigeria out of its present stage, as such our country of tomorrow needs every one in the struggle by PDP.” On his part, Aminu Tambuwal, Sokoto governor, expressed happiness over the decision of the defectors to join the PDP in the state. “Today you are all retuning home. I am happy that all of you are satisfied and convinced with the PDP leadership in Sokoto and Nigeria,” he said. Tambuwal described Atiku and Okowa as “true nationalists” with passion for Nigeria’s prosperity, saying their partnership will yield the right leadership needed for the country. Earlier, Iyorchia Ayu, the PDP national chairman, said the party was witnessing favourable signals ahead of the 2023 elections. Ayu, represented by Umar Damagum, said PDP has come to be in Sokoto and Nigeria. “This development is an indication that we are true democrats with vision. Our unity, resilience and strength demonstrates the party’s capacity to deliver to Nigerians what their yearnings are,” he said. Since the conclusion of the APC primary elections, several senators of the ruling party have defected to other political parties. On Sunday, Kashim Shettima, former governor of Borno, led some APC senators to meet Bola Tinubu, APC presidential candidate, to help address the internal crisis in the senate caucus of the party. At the end of the meeting, Shettima said the crisis is being resolved. 