Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo says he remains committed to the dream of a new Nigeria, despite his loss at the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential primary. Osinbajo said this on Friday at the campaign office of The Progressive Project (TPP), a coalition of support groups that backed him for the presidency. According to a statement by Laolu Akande, his spokesman, the vice-president also said he would support Bola Tinubu, flagbearer of the APC, for the 2023 presidential election. “We went to the convention, and the results showed us clearly that we lost, but it is only a battle, it is not the war. There are battles ahead, but we will win the war for a new Nigeria. I have no doubt in my mind that we will win that war for a new Nigeria,” he was quoted as saying. “That is why our movement for a new Nigeria must remain strong and firm. And we will do everything to keep our movement strong and solid.” According to the vice-president, despite the result of the APC primary, “the dream of a new country remains alive and we will have at the back of our minds, that what you have started in the various movements, coming into one, is the seed that will birth a new nation. You and I know the time has come and we will devote everything to it”. “I am committed and will remain committed to that dream (of a new Nigeria), for as long as you are willing and recognise that we have not yet written the story of this country, we have not yet completed the story of this country. As a matter of fact, the story has just begun, this movement has just started,” he added. Osinbajo also said he had resolved to abide by the results of the primary “because there is only one process for democrats, whether that process is good or bad, there is only one, and we have gone through that process”. “And in that process, a winner has been adjudged, but that does not kill the dream of the great future. We will support our party; we will support the flagbearer of our party because we know that the other side is not even worth considering. So, we will support the flagbearer of our party, we will do everything we can,” he said.