Simon Lalong, governor of Plateau, has declared June 27 and June 28 as work-free days to enable eligible voters in the state to register for their permanent voter cards (PVCs). Speaking on Friday at the monthly prayer and fasting programme at the government house chapel, Rayfield, Jos, the governor described the democratic process as not just “a civil responsibility but also spiritual”. “That is why I approved work-free days to enable eligible citizens who have not yet obtained their PVCs to do so,” he said. “I charge all civil servants to take advantage of this opportunity to ensure that they register so as to be able to choose their leaders during the elections. “Failure to participate automatically means that you will live with the choices of others whether it is good or bad. “Politics should never be seen as a do-or-die affair because at the end of the day, Plateau people are brothers and sisters and share the same heritage.” Meanwhile, in Bauchi, Bala Mohammed, governor of the state, has declared June 27 as work-free day for residents to participate in the ongoing continuous voter registration. According to a statement issued by Mukhtar Gidado, special assistant to the governor on media and publicity, the work-free day is to give civil servants the opportunity to go to their respective localities to register and obtain their PVCs. ”By this, all Commissioners, Special Advisers, Permanent Secretaries, and other top government functionaries are directed to proceed to their respective electoral wards to mobilise eligible registrants to come out en-mass and register,” the statement reads. The development comes amid speculations over a possible extension of the voter registration deadline. However, a federal high court in Abuja, on Monday, stopped the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) from ending the exercise on June 30. The court granted an order of interim injunction following the hearing of an argument on motion ex parte filed by the Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP).