One person was stabbed to death following a clash between some youths in the Anguwan-Daji and Limawa areas of Minna, Niger state capital. Residents were thrown into panic as some youths in Anguwan-Daji besieged the Limawa area, obstructing commuters and destroying properties. The clash started on Friday and continued on Saturday. Wasiu Abiodun, police spokesperson in the state, said a resident of Limawa was stabbed to death during the fight. He said five suspects have been arrested in connection with the violence. “In view of the recent youth restiveness in Minna metropolis in which on 02/06/2022 at about 1900hrs, some miscreants engaged themselves in a free for all around Angwan-Daji and Limawa area of Minna, unfortunately during the fight one Muktar Bashir aged 25yrs ‘m’ of Limawa was stabbed dead,” the statement reads. “Upon receipt of the information, department of operations, area commander metro and other patrol teams in the metro were mobilized to the scene and two suspects were apprehended while others took to their heels. However, the corpse was taken to general hospital Minna for autopsy and later released to the family for burial. “Consequently, on 04/06/2022 at about 1020hrs, distress call was received of a suspected reprisal attack that some youths were engaging in a similar fight around stadium junction; along Bosso road causing panic and blockage of the road. “Police tactical teams immediately moved to the area and three other suspects were arrested including a notorious gang leader from Angwan-Daji by name Isah Aliyu aged 23yrs (a.k.a Gaye, Obasanjo) who stabbed the said Muktar dead.” Abubakar Gbamache, a resident of Anguwan-Daji, told TheCable that the clash started three days ago. “Those thugs started fighting again today. They have been breaking and destroying things in the area. They killed a boy yesterday and another boy from Limawa area was killed today,” he said. “They have blocked the road. People could not pass freely, I also got trapped because I had to go and check on my family. “What they usually do is to collaborate with another area to attack an area that has been marked as an enemy zone. “The Anguwan-Daji thugs did not allow the boy that was stabbed today to be buried at the Limawa cemetery. They had to perform the burial at Kpakungu cemetery.” The police spokesperson said a tactical team has been deployed in the area to address the unrest.