Rotimi Akeredolu, governor of Ondo, has signed an executive order for the compulsory installation of close circuit television (CCTV) cameras in public places in the state. The development comes weeks after the attack on worshippers at St Francis Catholic Church, Owo area of Ondo. Days after the attack, six persons were killed in the Sabo area of Ondo town in the state. According to a statement by Richard Olatunde, his chief press secretary, Akeredolu said the decision became necessary in light of the spate of insecurity in the country and the need to ensure the security of lives and properties in the state. The governor said the executive order will be enforced at all religious places, financial institutions, event centres, supermarkets, educational institutions, hotels/motels, restaurants, clinics and health centres, among others. “Pursuant to Section 176 (2) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria which vests in the Governor of Ondo State the Chief Executive powers of the state, the Governor, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, SAN, hereby issues the following Executive Orders,” the statement reads. “That the owners, occupiers, managers and operators of public/private institutions within Ondo State shall mandatorily install, use and maintain CCTV devices and other secret cameras to monitor and keep surveillance on the daily activities in their premises and especially monitor the ingress and egress of people/vehicles at the said places, venues and centres. “That the installed CCTV devices apart from capturing all activities at the public/private institutions must also have data storage hardware and data stored therein should be made available to security agencies whenever required. “That public/private institutions shall employ and maintain well-trained security personnel who shall man the entry and exit points to their various facilities/premises. “That where necessary, the owners and occupiers of public/private institutions shall erect a well-fortified perimeter fence with a security post at the entry and exit points. “That this Executive Order shall be enforced by all security agencies particularly the Nigeria Police, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Ondo State Security Network Agency (Amotekun) and the Department of State Security Services (DSS). “That violators of this Executive Order shall be prosecuted in accordance with Section 203 of the Criminal Code (Cap. 37) Laws of Ondo State of Nigeria.”