The federal capital territory administration (FCTA), on Thursday, sealed off a popular pub and event centre, Zodara Bar, in Abuja metropolis. The centre is located at 2, Bujumbura street, Wuse II. According to NAN, the operation was carried out through a multi-departmental operation, chaired by the Abuja metropolitan management council (AMMC). Addressing journalists after sealing the property, Shuaibu Umar, AMMC coordinator, said the operation became necessary following a court order which indicated a change of land use and illegal activities constituting nuisance to public peace. “First and foremost, the property that is in use now is constituting general environmental nuisance to the whole of the neighborhood. The whole of the area is disturbed by the activities going on in this building,” he said. “As you can see, it is a multi-departmental operation headed by the Abuja metropolitan management council (AMMC). “All departments are involved namely, park and recreations, Abuja environmental protection board (AEPB), department of development control, and enforcement team from the office of the FCT minister. “We received so many complaints from whatever activities happening here and we followed all necessary processes. “We went to court and obtained a seal-off order. Whatever we are doing here is enforcing what the court has directed. “Whatever we do here is that we must not allow any impunity to take place in the FCT. We have so many complaints and we gave many notices to the occupant of this property, yet they proved to be very recalcitrant. “We have taken the necessary steps in order to ensure that we rid this neighbourhood of any nuisance that is emanating from this place.” On his part, Osi Braimah, AEPB director, said the FCT’s activities are guided by law. “If you are going to build a property, you must get approval from the department of development control. If you want to change your land use, you must get an approval,” he said. “Also, the noise level in the FCT is controlled. So, clubs, gardens and all that must comply with the noise requirements. “We are forced to close this property because people living around this area can no longer sleep or rest because of the activities going in this building.” Also, Muktar Galadima, director, department of development control, said all developments in the FCT are guided by the Abuja master plan. “This plot in question was designed and approved for residential purpose but they have converted the land use and it has become a nuisance to the environment,” he said. On his part, Ikharo Attah, senior special assistant on monitoring, inspection and enforcement to the FCT minister, said the minister insisted that all the illegalities happening around the area must stop. “If you look at the parking alone here, it is very disturbing and painful. But the beauty of it all and what we will be taking home from here is the fact that FCT agencies under AMMC are driving home a very strong message — that you don’t abuse and rape the urban and regional planning law and AEPB Act and go free,” he said. According to NAN, the property included a restaurant, barbing salon, club house.