The Lagos government has introduced a “floating clinic” to improve healthcare service delivery on waterways and in riverine communities. The clinic was unveiled on Wednesday at the civic centre towers in Victoria Island. Speaking at the unveiling of the project, Olusegun Ogboye, permanent secretary, Lagos ministry of health, said the innovation was introduced to help provide first aid, medical emergency care and basic healthcare services at accident scenes on waterways and in riverine communities. “This is part of initiatives by the ministry of health to ensure that we extend our medical and ambulance service to the waterways, remote riverine communities and areas that can only be accessed by water,” he said. “This is also an example of partnership between different agencies of government; the boat actually belongs to LASWA but will be operated by the ministry of health”. Ogboye also said the boat clinic will be deployed for the ongoing integrated measles and COVID vaccination campaign in riverine communities across the state. “It is something that we have planned. That is certainly why we are starting with one boat and we are going to expand. It is a sustainable idea. We already run ambulance services; we are only expanding to include the waterways and we have the human resources to run it,” he added. The permanent secretary also said residents in riverine communities can access the services of the floating clinic through the Lagos state emergency services numbers. Also speaking, Damilola Emmanuel, the general manager of Lagos State Waterways Authority (LASWA), said the initiative will further integrate emergency and rescue systems for commuter safety in riverine communities. “As you know, for us at LASWA, we have been gradually building emergency and rescue efforts and gradually seeing how the safety on the waterways keeps improving year after year. This is just another initiative to further add to the integrated emergency and rescue system,” Emmanuel said. The floating clinic is said to be equipped with four medical observation beds, a medium sterilisation unit, oxygen bottle, gauge, infusion stand, foldable stretcher, and fully-kitted first aid box.