Greg Ibe, governorship candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in the 2023 election in Abia, has received his certificate of return from the party. Four contestants for the state house of assembly for APGA also received their certificates of return. Speaking at the presentation of the certificate at the party’s secretariat in Abuja, Ibe, who is the founder of Greg University Uturu, called on his political rivals to join forces with him to serve Abia. He also pledged inclusive governance with no bitterness towards the opposition. “The battle ahead to rescue Abia is enormous. On my part, I will eschew hate and division towards making our party stronger,” he said. “God has already blessed Abia state with natural resources, peace and good people. I urge you all to let us work together as one family and one people with a common goal and interest to harness all the endowments to place our state in its rightful position among other states in the country.” Victor Oye, the national chairman of APGA hailed Ibe’s leadership qualities. He also assured the audience that Ibe would inject creativity and innovation into the leadership of Abia. “As an industrialist, Ibe already has a solid background as well as the template to fast track infrastructural development of Abia state,” Oye said. Meanwhile, Ibe has commenced reconciliatory moves with his main rivals who include Chikwe Udensi,  Ijioma N. Ijioma, Etigwe Uwa, and chieftains of the party in the state with a view to include them in his plan to move the state forward. “All the aggrieved parties were well received and they have agreed to withdraw the court suits so that we can work together for the overall good of our state, Abia. Everything is working fine,” Emeka Okoafor, a senior member of the Ibe campaign team, said. “Abia has been yearning for a committed leader who will transform the state in infrastructure, welfare of the citizens and this is an opportunity that Abians cannot afford to lose it this time around,” he said. The legislator appealed to eligible voters in the state to utilise the ongoing voter registration exercise in readiness for the 2023 poll.