The Nigerian Army says its personnel have witnessed positive changes under the leadership of Faruk Yahaya, its chief. The army said this in reaction to reports that some soldiers and officers were planning to protest unpaid emoluments and poor working conditions. Onyema Nwachukwu, army’s spokesperson in a statement on Wednesday, said the allegations raised in those reports should be dismissed. “It is on record that officers and soldiers of the NA under the leadership of Lieutenant General Faruk Yahaya, like never before, have witnessed exceptional positive changes in the moral and physical components of the force,” the statement reads. “It is therefore crucial to state in very clear terms that the NA has never had it so good, given the quantum of combat and logistics equipment that have been injected into the theatres of operations, a circumstance that has evidently turned the tide against  the complex array of threats facing the nation. “This is in addition to welfare packages introduced by the current leadership of the NA. More also, aside from prompt payment of salaries and operational allowances, welfare flights have been inaugurated, which significantly reduced the burden of troops traveling in and out of the theatres to see their loved ones. This is also in addition to huge commitment on the medical needs of wounded-in-action officers and soldiers and the barracks communities. Scholarships are also being awarded to children of officers and soldiers killed in action in the ongoing operations. “It is worthy of note, that across all NA Barracks there are deliberate efforts at providing conducive working and living conditions for troops and their families. These interventions in the form of massive barracks construction and renovation works, with visible footprints are bringing succour to NA personnel nationwide.” Nwachukwu said the army under the current leadership has remained resolute in carrying out its constitutional role and will vigorously continue to implement welfare programmes for the benefit of all personnel. Troops deployed in ongoing operational engagements, he said, are putting in their best for the nation and should be encouraged, rather than plotting disaffection amongst them. He also asked the personnel to remain steadfast and unswayed by “the antics of unpatriotic elements, who for selfish gains want to plunge the nation into chaos”.