The federal capital territory administration (FCTA) says the newly-elected officials for the six area councils of the territory will be inaugurated on Tuesday. The FCTA said the inauguration is in compliance with an order of the FCT high court in Kubwa. Lawrence Onuchukwu, the vice-chairman of the Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC), had reportedly filed a case at the FCT high court, asking that the tenure of area council officials be extended from three to four years in line with the new electoral act. Following a ruling by the court in favour of the extension, Muhammad Bello, FCT minister, had announced the suspension of the inauguration of the area council chairpersons and councillors scheduled for May 20. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) had, however, kicked against the suspension of the inauguration of the council officials. Speaking on Friday when he addressed youths protesting the delayed inauguration, Olusade Adesola, FCTA permanent secretary, said a new court order had been received on the development. ”The FCTA, at about 1400hrs of Friday, June 10, received the certified true copy of the new judgement of the FCT high court delivered by Justice Ibrahim Mohammed in respect of the subject matter,” NAN quoted him as saying. “The court has set aside its earlier judgment delivered on Friday, May 13, granting a one-year extension of the outgoing chairmen and councillors of the six FCT area councils due to lack of jurisdiction. “The judgment effectively cleared the way for the swearing-in of the newly elected chairmen.” He added that as a law-abiding organisation, the FCTA would equally obey the new judgment, just as it had complied with the earlier one. “The newly elected chairmen shall, accordingly, be inaugurated on Tuesday, June 14, 2022. Further details would be provided in due course,” he said. “Residents are once again reminded that the FCT is a creation of law and all actions of the FCT administration are guided by the rule of law and this case will not be an exception. “The FCTA extends its appreciation to all stakeholders for their patience and support in this regard, and enjoins all residents of the territory to remain calm and law-abiding in their daily activities.” Earlier on Friday, some youths barricaded the entrance of the FCTA secretariat, demanding the immediate inauguration of the council officials.