The federal government has asked qualified civil servants to apply for the role of accountant general. This development is coming after Idris Ahmed, former accountant general of the federation was arrested by the  Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) over alleged N80 billion fraud. Idris was then suspended by Zainab Ahmed, minister for finance while the case was being investigated. TheCable had reported that the federal government, however, approved the appointment of Anamekwe Nwabuoku to oversee the office. In a circular dated June 21, 2022, Folasade Yemi-Esan, head of the civil service of the federation said the process of appointment of a substantive accountant general of the federation has commenced. According to Yemi-Esan, the application was approved by President Muhammadu Buhari. The role is open to all directors and accountants in the mainstream who are not retiring before the end of 2024. “Following the approval of Mr. President, the office of the head of the civil service of the federation is commencing the process of the appointment of a substantive accountant general of the federation from eligible directors (accountant) in the pool of accountant general of the federation,” the circular reads. “Consequently, all accountants in the mainstream federal civil service in the pool of accountant general of the federation who have attained the position of substantive director (Salary Grade 17) on or before 1st January 2020 and [are] not retiring from the service earlier than 31st December 2024, are eligible to participate in the exercise. “Officers undergoing disciplinary proceedings are however excluded from the exercise.” The circular also directed eligible applicants to provide documents to guarantee the process of their application, adding that required documents be submitted on or before July 6, 2022. “Permanent secretaries are therefore requested to forward the following to facilitate the process; list of eligible directors on SGL 17, confidential and personal files of all eligible directors, five copies of curriculum vital of each of the eligible directors, brief on each of the eligible directors in the attached format to be produced in Microsoft Word and in both hard (5 copies) and soft copies. Soft copies are to be sent via email to ohcsfemd@ohcst.gov.ng and also in a flash drive,” the circular further reads. “The documents above must reach the office of the permanent secretary, career management office (CMO), office of the head of the civil service of the federation, Block A, 4th Floor. federal secretariat complex, phase II on or before 4:00 pm on Wednesday, July 6, 2022.”