The British High Commission says it is “concerned” over reports of vote-buying during the just-concluded Ekiti governorship election. TheCable had reported how the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) arrested suspects engaging in vote-buying during the election, which was concluded on Sunday. Kemi Elebute-Halle, the Ekiti governorship candidate of the Action Democratic Party (ADP), had also alleged that other political parties were involved in vote-buying. Biodun Oyebanji of the All Progressives Congress (APC) eventually was declared the winner of the election after he secured 187,057 votes out of the 360,753 votes cast. In a statement on Monday, the British High Commission said the relevant authorities should hold persons involved in vote-buying accountable, adding that the buying and selling of votes has no place in a democracy. “We congratulate the people of Ekiti state for their peaceful and democratic participation in the governorship election that was held on Saturday 18 June 2022,” the statement reads. “As the first major election conducted since the enactment of the Electoral Act 2022, we commend the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), security agencies, our civil society partners and all stakeholders for their collective effort in the successful conduct of the poll under the new legal framework. “Our team of observers on the ground noted commendable improvements in the electoral process including the timely opening of polls, better functioning of the Biometric Voters Accreditation System (BVAS) devices for accrediting voters, and the transparent and efficient electronic transmission of polling unit results to INEC’s results viewing portal. “We are concerned about reports of vote buying during the election and call on the relevant authorities to hold any persons involved accountable. The buying and selling of votes has no place in a democracy. “We encourage INEC to reflect on other potential improvements to the electoral process ahead of general elections in 2023, especially the re-distribution and assignment of voters to newly established polling units to reduce queuing times, better awareness and implementation of electoral guidelines by INEC staff and improved accessibility at polling units to help with the participation of persons with disabilities. “We urge any party or individual who is dissatisfied with the process to seek redress in a peaceful manner and through the appropriate legal channels. “As Nigeria moves closer to the 2023 general elections, we encourage people to register and collect their PVCs and to participate actively in the political process. “The UK will continue to assist INEC and our partners in their aspiration to support peaceful, credible and inclusive elections in Nigeria.”