The Oyo government has declared three-day mourning in honour of the victims of the attack on St Francis Catholic Church, Owo, Ondo state. The church was attacked by gunmen who killed many people. The decision, according to a statement by Olubamiwo Adeosun, secretary to the state government, is in compliance with the resolution of the south-west governors at the end of a meeting held on June 10. Adeosun said Seyi Makinde, Oyo governor, approved that flags be flown at half-mast from Monday to Wednesday in honour of the slain victims. According to Adeosun, the governors condemned the attack and resolved to increase surveillance on the activities of undocumented settlers in all the states. “The governors condemned in very strong terms the horrendous crime perpetrated by terrorists against the people and residents of Owo, Ondo State and by extension the peace-loving people of the South-West,” the statement reads. “The governors noted, with great discomfiture, the increasing agitations about spaces taken over by unidentified and unknown migrants in all South-West states. “The governors, as chief security officers, resolved to continue to assist the security agencies in the areas of crisis management and intelligence gathering at all times. “The governors reviewed reports from various states on the factors militating against peace and security in the region. “They expressed grave concern on the influx of okada riders into all parts of the south-west, especially the state capitals, and further resolved that efforts be geared toward identity management of okada riders and stringent regulations put in place for their operation.” She said the governors decided to reconvene the south-west security committee “to look critically into menace of Okada riders’ influx“. She added that the committee will subsequently submit its findings on the desirability of okada operations in the region, as well as come up with a multi-level template to combat the threat of insurgency and terrorism in the region. Rotimi Akeredolu, governor of Ondo, also extended the mourning period in the state to Wednesday. Akeredolu had directed that all flags in the state be flown at half-mast from June 6 to 12. “Gov. Akeredolu has also directed that all flags in the state must be flown at half-mast for the three days period,” Richard Olatunde, his chief press secretary, said. Akeredolu had said 40 people were killed in the attack, and that 61 victims are currently hospitalised.