The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) says there is no explanation for the killing of worshippers at St Francis Catholic Church in Owo, Ondo state. The association said the attack, which took place during service on Sunday, is unacceptable while describing the perpetrators as “possessed and demonic”. Samson Ayokunle, CAN president, spoke on Sunday in a statement issued by Adebayo Oladeji, his media aide. He said: “The leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has condemned the unprovoked attacks and killing of several innocent worshippers at the St Francis Catholic Church, Owa-luwa Street, Owo, and called on the security agencies to apprehend the perpetrators of the dastardly criminality. “This is sad, wrong, condemnable, outrageous, unacceptable, and satanic. There is no explanation for this unprovoked attack and assault on a place of worship. This is raw persecution. These people are possessed, and demonic, and are not working for the good of the country. May God descend heavily on them and fight them mindless agents of Satan from their roots in Jesus’ name.” The association called on President Muhammadu Buhari to “stop the recycling of those criminals and terrorists in the name of de-radicalising programme” and overhaul the country’s security architecture. Similarly, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said the “gruesome terrorist attack” is an indication that the federal government has failed in the war against insecurity. Debo Ologunagba, the PDP national publicity secretary, said: “The PDP is alarmed by reports of how the terrorists invaded the church, opened fire on worshippers, freely used explosives within the premises, murdered our compatriots in cold blood and left unchallenged. “Today’s attack on St. Francis Church appears to be a part in the series of apparently organized assaults by terrorists who are emboldened by the alleged complicity of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led All Progressives Congress (APC) administration, which has refused to confront the terrorists despite being aware of their plans as exposed by the Kaduna State Governor, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai at the wake of recent terrorist attacks on Kaduna State.” Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo has said he is saddened by the “dastardly” killing of worshippers. “No matter what, this country shall never give in to evil, and wicked people will never overcome light,” he said. Former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar also condemned the attack and called on the state government and relevant security agencies to “leave no stone unturned in apprehending the criminals and bringing them to justice”. I condemn the attack on the St Francis Catholic Church, Owa-luwa Street, in Owo council area of Ondo State capital. My prayers are with the people of Owo, especially families of the deceased. — Atiku Abubakar (@atiku) June 5, 2022 