Two factions of the All Progressives Congress (APC) have affirmed their support for Ikechi Emenike as the party’s governorship candidate for the 2023 general election. The factions took the decision at a reconciliation meeting held on Saturday in Ikwuano LGA of the state. The party was thrown into crisis in 2014 after a leadership squabble between the previous state chairman, Donatus Nwankpa, and Emenike. However, in his speech during the reconciliation meeting, Nwankpa urged all party members to embrace peace. “Today, we have achieved reconciliation. Today is the end of factionalisation in Abia APC. There will be harmonisation and total integration with participatory role for every party member,” he said. “The common interest that binds us is our collective desire to create a better Abia and society. We fought and disagreed but never quarrelled. “This is a new APC. We have interacted and everybody would have a sense of belonging. We are having a new rule of engagement and our desire is to take over Abia in 2023 to change the destiny of our people. “We are here for a better future for our children and the unborn generation. We urge Abia electorate to vote for our candidate for us to bring the change they are asking for.” A seven-point resolution which was adopted and affirmed at the meeting, was read out by Martin Azubuike, former speaker of Abia house of assembly. While Emenike was affirmed as the governorship candidate, Kingsley Ononogbu was affirmed as the state chairman of the party. In his address, the governorship candidate described the reconciliation as “the first major step in the long journey to Abia government house”. “What unites us in APC is more important than what divides us. It is a shame that, in spite of this array of quality people here, some people are holding Abia hostage,” he said. “Since all of us are interested in moving Abia forward, let us come together and work to achieve this goal.” On May 26, the APC declared Emenike the winner of the governorship primary. Shortly after, ruling in a suit instituted by Chinedum Nwole and two others, a high court in Abia state declared that Emenike lacks the locus standi to contest the election because he had earlier been suspended from the party However, in another ruling, O.A. Chijioke, the presiding judge, granted Emenike a stay of execution on the restraining order earlier imposed.