The Nigeria Cricket Federation (NCF) is collaborating with The Middlestump, Africa’s leading cricket media organisation, to stage a virtual cricket series titled “Africa Cricket Roundtable”. The series is expected to debut on Monday on Twitter space. According to Tayo Solowe, founder of The Middlestump, the platform is set up to aggregate thoughts on issues, prospects, and growth of cricket by engaging stakeholders from different parts of Africa. “The Nigeria Cricket Federation has no doubt been a leading example in what is possible on growth and innovative systems building for the continent. Rwanda has also shown a brilliant event planning, logistics management and talent development while Uganda, Botswana, Ghana and Kenya have unique stories to tell as well,” said Solowe on Sunday. “We are working to build a platform where notes on all these unique stories can be told and exchanged for adoption in the most cost-effective way for the growth of cricket.” Sowole, who described the NCF as a worthy partner due to the operations of The Middlestump being based in Nigeria and the fluid leadership of the federation, said: “I think what Uyi Akpata has brought to cricket administration is beyond Nigeria. We need a platform where other African countries can benefit from him. Most importantly we also need to get other countries to share their interesting journey for all.” The maiden edition of the event is billed to run on “Twitter Space” on @themiddlestump2 and @CricketNigeria handles on June 13, by 1 pm (local time) with the theme “Development opportunities for cricket in Africa.” Panelists for the maiden event include “Akpata; Justine Ligyalingi, Development Officer, ICC Africa; Rita Tinka, Women Representative, Uganda Cricket Board; Meet Shah, Co-founder, CricHeroes; Ladi Sonaike, Assistant Coach, Cricket Germany and Sowole.” “We believe this series will help a number of associates get a better grip of their developmental goals and foster partnership that will help drive sustainable growth for the game across the continent as executives running cricket across Africa will also be joining,” Sowole said.