YouthHubAfrica has called on Nigerians to come together to build a country where institutions are revered above individuals who are seemingly disconnected from the reality of the masses. This call came during a two-day town hall meeting put together by the organisation in Ebonyi. The event, tagged ‘You Matter in This Matter’, was held in May, 2022. YouthHubAfrica initiative is sensitising youths across the country on human rights and helping them seek redress over cases of human rights abuses. Speaking at the event, Christopher Okorie, the Ebonyi state National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) coordinator, tasked Nigerians to place human lives above religious, cultural, and tribal sentiments because anyone would have to be alive first before defending affiliations. He added that humanity has been displaced in the society by money, religion and sentiments. “NHRC stands to promote, protect and enforce the rights of all Nigerians and those living in Nigeria through diverse means,” he said. Participants registering at the event Jesse Obinna, deputy director of the Public Complaint Commission (PCC) investigation team, encouraged participants to be free in reporting their grievances, as the commission helps citizens get intervention at no cost. “All services we offer are free and officials are not liable to charge you for anything. This is because the commission stands for fairness and justice, where citizens can access police services without stress because it gives strength to the weak. More so, justice is usually served without technicalities,” he said. In the meeting, which had about 185 youths in attendance, participants addressed the vision of the 2020 #EndSARS protest, saying it was caused by bad governance, human rights violations and extrajudicial killings of innocent citizens by police officers. This project is implemented across the country by YouthHubAfrica with support from Onelife Initiative for Human Development, Cedar Seed Foundation and Foundation for Investigative Journalism (FIJ). This report was produced through the ‘You Matter in this Matter’ Project being implemented by YouthHubAfrica, Onelife Initiative, Cedar Seed Foundation and FIJ, with support from Voice Nigeria.