Brown-Forman Corporation, the producer of Jack Daniel’s, and Coca-Cola have partnered to release a branded, ready-to-drink (RTD) canned version of the Jack and Coke cocktail. The companies announced this in a statement on Monday. Drawing inspiration from the classic bar cocktail, the new drink will be made with Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Whiskey and Coca-Cola. They said the beverage will be available in markets around the world, with an initial launch planned for Mexico in late 2022. The two companies will also offer a zero-sugar version of the drink. Revenue in the alcoholic drinks market amounts to $31.76 billion in 2022. The market is expected to grow annually by 11.95 percent (CAGR 2022-2025). The market for alcoholic drinks is also expected to show a volume growth of 1.0 percent in 2023. In the statement, the companies said the global benchmark for alcohol beverage volume (ABV) will be 5 percent but will vary depending on the market. “The can and packaging, which will feature two of the world’s most recognisable and valuable trademarks in Coca-Cola and Jack Daniel’s, will include clear responsibility symbols stating that it is to be enjoyed only by consumers of legal drinking age,” the statement reads. “Jack Daniel’s and Coca-Cola RTDs will adhere to responsible marketing practices held by Brown-Forman and The Coca-Cola Company.” Commenting on the development, Lawson Whiting, chief executive officer of Brown-Forman Corporation, said the relationship brings together “two classic American icons to deliver consumers a taste experience they love in a way that is consistent, convenient, and portable.” “Brown‑Forman has been a leader in the ready-to-drink category since we launched our first Jack Daniel’s RTD more than 30 years ago. Coca-Cola perfectly complements Jack Daniel’s and our existing RTD offerings, enabling us to accelerate expansion and continue to grow our business around the world,” he adds. On his part, James Quincey, chairman and CEO of The Coca-Cola Company, said: “We keep consumers at the center of everything we do as we continue to develop our portfolio as a total beverage company, and that includes new products with our iconic Coca-Cola brand.” “We are excited about our new relationship with Brown-Forman and look forward to the introduction of Jack Daniel’s and Coca-Cola.”