YIAGA Africa, a civil society organisation (CSO), says the official results released by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for the Ekiti governorship election, reflect the votes cast at the polling units. The organisation said this in a process and results verification report released on Sunday. The report was signed by Samson Itodo and Ezenwa Nwagwu, executive director, and board member of the CSO, respectively. Oyebanji, former secretary to the state government (SSG), was declared winner of the Ekiti governorship election at 3:05am on Sunday after winning 15 out of the 16 LGAs in the state. Oyebanji secured 187,057 votes, defeating his two closest challengers — Segun Oni of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) who polled 82,211 votes, and Bisi Kolawole of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who got 67,457 votes In its report, YIAGA Africa said INEC’s results for the Ekiti state governorship election are consistent with its estimates. “Had the official results been changed at the ward, LGA or state collation centres, the official results would not have fallen within the Yiaga Africa WTV estimated ranges. Because the official results fall within the estimated ranges, candidates, parties, and voters should have confidence the official results for the Ekiti 2022 gubernatorial election reflect the ballots cast at polling units on Saturday, June 18,” the report reads. “It is important to highlight that the counting process at polling units was transparent and included representatives from the four political parties that received the most votes.” YIAGA Africa also said INEC’s turnout result and rejected ballots for the 16 LGAs released are consistent with its estimates. “Yiaga Africa is able to estimate that turnout is between 35.7% and 38.7% (37.2% ± 1.5%), while INEC’s official result is 36.47%. Similarly, Yiaga Africa estimates rejected ballots are between 1.8%and 2.6% (2.2% ± 0.4%) while INEC’s official result is 2.46%,” the report reads. “Yiaga Africa encourages INEC to uphold the principles of transparency by publishing the total number of PVCs collected in Ekiti on its website. In addition, Yiaga Africa calls on INEC to audit the newly created polling units and ensure equitable distribution of voters to the polling units. “Yiaga Africa commends the professionalism of the security agents who worked to maintain peace on Election Day. We commend the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) for the arrest of mercenaries deployed by political parties to buy votes. We urge the EFCC and security agencies to investigate and prosecute all citizens involved in electoral fraud, especially those involved in vote trading.”