Friends and associates of Bolaji Abdullahi, former minister of sports and youth development, have announced the first edition of the ‘Omoluabi Summit’, in commemoration of the International Youth Day. According to a statement issued on Thursday by Seun Awogbenle, on behalf of the organisers, the summit is an opportunity for young people to “celebrate the Omoluabi values, which have long been espoused as a personal, professional, and political philosophy by Politician, Author, and Journalist, Mallam Bolaji Abdullahi”. Awogbenle said Abdullahi, senatorial candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for Kwara central, believes that the personal and collective choices of an individual are a reflection of strong values, high moral standards, and character principles. “It is in the effort to further institutionalise these ideals, that his associates, friends, and well-wishers have decided to commit the annual international youth day celebration, which is by sheer providence Abdullahi’s birthday, to celebrate these values and project them, as an inspiration for young people, aspiring leaders and indeed every Nigerian,” the statement reads. “Abdullahi had, in his personal effort to institutionalise these ideals, committed his time to nurturing a new class of young leaders, through his Bolaji Abdullahi Mentorship Programme, Nigeria’s flagship leadership mentorship programme. “We are convinced that, if imbibed, values such as honesty, nobility, courage, hardwork, humanity, endurance, dignity, trustworthiness, and above all solidarity and commitment to the collective and common good, can serve as the foundation for national rebirth and future development. “And Bolaji Abdullahi has especially shown these examples in his personal, professional, and political life, either as a Commissioner, Minister, or Party Spokesperson.” Awogbenle said the theme for the event is ‘Character as Leadership’, adding that the choice of the subject matter is “informed by the need to continuously highlight strong character as the most essential requirement for political leadership”. “This is especially corroborated, by the agelong expressions, that a good name is better than gold and that good character adorns one, which both explains why a good reputation is worth more than riches or affluence,” he added. The event, which will also focus on discussions around quality leadership choices for the 2023 elections, will hold on August 12 in Ilorin, the Kwara capital. “Speakers and special guests for the event would be unveiled in the coming days,” Awogbenle added.