A high court of the federal capital territory (FCT) sitting in Wuse has ordered the remand of Peter Nwachukwu, Osinachi’s husband, in Kuje correctional centre pending the hearing and determination of his trial. Osinachi was alleged to have been a silent victim of domestic violence by her now-embattled husband. The gospel singer, who died on April 8, was initially thought to have died of throat cancer. But associates claimed it may be connected to an assault by her husband, who was later arrested. The case was transferred from Lugbe police division to the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID). It was subsequently forwarded to the office of the attorney-general of the federation (AGF). At the court session on Friday, Nwachukwu pleaded not guilty to 23-count charges bordering on domestic violence and homicide. After arraignment, N.K. Nwosu-Iheme, the judge, ordered that the suspect be remanded at the correctional facility while trial was adjourned to June 16 and June 17. “The business for today is for arraignment, accelerated hearing is hereby ordered,” the judge said. “Defendant should be remanded in Kuje correctional facility pending the hearing and determination of this suit.” Part of the charges reads: “That you Peter Nwachukwu, 56, male, on the 8th of April, 2022 at Aco Estate, opposite police station, Lugbe, Abuja, FCT, within the jurisdiction of this honourable court, did commit an offence to with: culpable homicide punishable with death in that you caused the death of Mrs Osinachi Nwachukwu by your various acts of violence and aggravated assault with the knowledge that her death would be the probable consequence of your acts.” “Statement of offence: Emotional, verbal and psychological abuse contrary to section 14(1) of the Violence Against Persons (Prohibition) Act, 2015 and punishable under the same section of the Act. “Particular of offence: That you, Peter Nwachukwu, male, sometime between 14th November 2009 and April 2022 at Aco Estate, opposite police station, Lugbe, Abuja, FCT, within the jurisdiction of this honourable court, did commit an offence to wit: emotional, verbal and psychological abuse on Mrs Osinachi Nwachukwu (deceased) by humiliating her and making utterances like ‘you are smelling,’ ‘you are mad,’ to her in the presence of her music crew members.”