Ejike Mbaka, spiritual director of Adoration Ministry, Enugu, Nigeria (AMEN), has asked his followers to refrain from any form of protest as a result of the ban placed on his ministry by the Catholic diocese of Enugu. On June 16, TheCable reported that Mbaka described Peter Obi, presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), as a “stingy man”, and asked his followers not to support his bid to become president. Following widespread criticism, Mbaka apologised for the remarks, saying his intention was not to malign Obi’s image. Subsequently, on June 18, Callistus Onaga, bishop of the Enugu diocese, barred Catholics from attending the Adoration Ministry. Reacting to the directive, Mbaka’s followers gathered at the Adoration ground on Sunday to protest the decision of the bishop. In a statement on Monday, Mbaka asked his followers to remain calm and desist from attacking or insulting the bishop. “Dear people of God, I greet you in the name of our Lord, Jesus Christ. My attention has been drawn to activities that took place in the Adoration ground this Sunday (19/06/2022),” the statement reads. “I am not in any way involved in such activity. We received with obedience the directive issued by my Bishop, His Excellency Most Rev CVC Onaga, on June 17, 2022. May I therefore appeal to the faithful, in particular, members of Adoration Ministry Enugu, Nigeria, to remain calm, and united with the body of Christ in the Diocese and also refrain from any measure of violence, either in action or by abusive utterances. “Those who take to attacking or insulting my dear Bishop should desist from such. The Bishop is the Chief Shepherd of the Church in the Diocese and we remain his flock who in every way and at all times is expected to be respectful, obedient and willing to respond favourably to his apostolic directives.” He reminded his followers that activities at the Adoration ministry remain suspended and that the ministry is “ever submissive to the mother church.” “Once again, I pledge my obedience to my Bishop. Adorers should endeavour to attend masses on a regular basis. I request your prayers and I promise to be praying for you in this perilous time.”