Doyin Okupe, vice-presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), had denied reports that Sanusi Lamido Sanusi and Muhammadu Abubakar endorsed Peter Obi. A post, which is said to have been authored by Sanusi, former governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), had described Obi as a contented man, who has volunteered to save Nigeria from impending catastrophe by contesting the presidency. The post has been shared multiple times on Twitter, Facebook and other social media platforms. TheCable has since found that the claim is false. Also, posts claiming Muhammadu Abubakar, Sultan of Sokoto, endorsed Obi recently surfaced online. “For the sake of your unborn children, vote for Peter Obi, don’t risk another 8 years with Tinubu or Atiku” one of the posts reads. But in a post on Twitter, Okupe said the LP is dissociating itself “from the purported endorsements of his candidacy by HRH Lamido Sanusi and His Eminence The Sultan of Sokoto”. “We plead with all our supporters to please desist from creating falsehood in the social media. Lets focus on claims that are verifiable & true,” he added. We also dissociate ourselves from the purported endorsements of his candidacy by HRH Lamido Sanusi and His Eminence The Sultan of Sokoto. We plead wt all our supporters to pls desist from creating falsehood in the social media. Lets focus on claims that are verifiable & true. — Doyin (@doyinokupe) June 21, 2022  Okupe also denied that the party was behind posts on social media claiming that Chukwuma Soludo, governor of Anambra, said Obi invested $20 million in SABMiller Plc, now AB InBev, on behalf of the state and that the investment is now worth $100 million. Over the past few days, the claim again surfaced on social media platforms, including one on a Facebook page titled, ‘Lamentations of A Bishop’. Soludo has, however, maintained that he never made such a statement. In another Twitter post, Okupe said the statement “is not from him or the campaign organisation”. “Peter Obi only talks about verifiable claims & what he’ll do when in office,” he wrote. Our attention has been drawn to a statement credited to HE Gov Soludo concerning quadripulling of investment made by Peter Obi as gov of anambra.This statement is not from him or d campaign organisation. Peter Obi only talks about verifiable claims & what he’ll do when in office. — Doyin (@doyinokupe) June 21, 2022  