CHARIS Royale Initiative (CRI), a Lagos faith-based organisation, has advised Bola Tinubu, presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), to pick Simon Lalong, governor of Plateau, as his running mate. Explaining their choice of Lalong, the group said the Plateau governor has, in the last seven years, worked hard to ensure that there is no religious crisis in his state. Oludele Adeogun, interim national secretary of the group, said the advice was part of the group’s contribution to ensure that the masses, especially those of the Christian faith, have confidence in the APC presidential candidate. Adeogun said the recent attack on a Catholic Church in Owo remains a sore point in an attempt by some unscrupulous elements to pitch Christians against Muslims, adding that there must be conscious effort to reassure Christians in the light of prevailing circumstances. He said those talking about a Muslim/Muslim ticket are not considering the level of ethnic and religious tension plaguing the country and the need for balancing. “It’s important to point out that Buhari’s victory in 2015 was propelled by his sensitivity to the religious reality of Nigeria’s political state which CRI championed then,” he said. “A choice of Lalong, who has fostered unity and peace in the last seven years in Plateau, leading to his appointment as the chairman of the northern governors’ forum, is a clear testimony of his leadership quality which will serve the nation well.” Following Tinubu’s victory in the APC presidential primary election, speculations have been rife about the identity of the vice-presidential candidate of the party. Several APC governors are believed to be in contention for the position, but there has been no official decision yet. Earlier on Tuesday, President Muhammadu Buhari met with APC governors to discuss the choice of running mate for Tinubu but no decision was announced on the development. Meanwhile, the Tinubu campaign organisation has said the APC governors are at liberty to pick a running mate for him. Bayo Onanuga, spokesman of the campaign organisation, had also said Tinubu’s running mate can come from any geo-political zone, irrespective of religious affiliation.