Buba Marwa, chairman of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), has charged officers of the agency to avoid enticement from drug barons. According to a statement issued on Saturday by Femi Babafemi, NDLEA spokesman, Marwa said this at the special operations training graduation of 650 officers of its strike force unit from the Nigerian Army School of Infantry, Jaji, Kaduna state. Marwa was represented by Yakubu Bako, his special adviser. The NDLEA chairman told the operatives that the specialised training they have received will enhance their role in the war against illicit drugs. “It is important that I should remind you that as the agency scales its operation against illicit drugs trafficking, your service will become increasingly essential to the successful attainment of our organisational goals,” he said. “The special nature of your training requires that you serve as force multiplier to the conventional NDLEA staff in the field. I have no doubt that you will measure up to the demand of the job because generations of military and paramilitary personnel have passed through this course and have distinguished themselves on the field. “Moreso, the progress report I received, including on-the-spot assessment, confirmed that the objective of the course has been achieved. “Therefore, as you graduate today, I urge you not to rest on your oars as your competence will be tested from time to time by challenges that will recur in your career as anti-narcotic operatives.” Marwa reminded the operatives of the importance of the strike force in the fight against drug trafficking. “The merit of having the strike force was evident in the month of February when, on two occasions, the agency was able to successfully carry our raid, seizure and destruction of a significant amount of psychotropic substance in territories which in the past were hostile and aldosteroneout of bounds for narcotic officers,” he said. “Anything that would compromise your discipline and dedication to duty should be avoided. As an anti-narcotic officer, you bear a huge obligation to remain incorruptible in the face of any temptation that might be sprung on you by drug traffickers and barons.”