The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) says the comments by Nasir el-Rufai, governor of Kaduna, and Rotimi Amaechi, minister of transportation, on the recent train attack in Kaduna shows that the All Progressives Congress (APC) is deliberately suppressing information on insecurity. An attack on an Abuja-Kaduna train by gunmen in the Kateri-Rijana area of Kaduna on Monday night, led to seven deaths, while scores of persons were injured and others abducted. Speaking on the development, el-Rufai had reportedly said security operatives have information on the activities of bandits, adding that what is really needed is decisive action. On his part, Amaechi had said the security challenges were expected, but that approval was not granted for the N3 billion security equipment that should have been purchased for the trains. Reacting in a statement issued on Thursday by Debo Ologunagba, its spokesman, the PDP said the comments by Amaechi and el-Rufai point to the APC’s “complicity” in refusing to address insecurity. “The public confession by the Kaduna State Governor, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai, authenticates the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)’s position that the All Progressives Congress (APC) administration knows the whereabouts and plans of the terrorists ravaging our nation but deliberately refuse to act,” the statement reads. “Also, the revelation by the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, that some members of the APC-led Federal Executive Council frustrated his request to install security surveillance equipment to avert terrorist attack on the Kaduna-Abuja rail track confirms that the APC administration has been creating safety nets for terrorists to freely operate in our country. “These revelations from high-ranking APC public officials who are in the position to know is troubling as they are unequivocal confirmation that APC leaders are in league with terrorists. “It also confirms that the APC government has conceded sovereignty over a part of our country to terrorists who, as a former APC leader confessed, were brought from neighbouring countries by the APC as “political mercenaries” to rig the 2019 general elections. “That informs why the APC is deliberately suppressing information and exposing our brave and gallant armed forces to harm’s way while watching innocent Nigerians perish in the hands of terrorists.” The PDP urged Nigerians to “be united in ensuring that the APC is voted out of power in 2023 so that our nation can breathe a new lease of life”.