The house of representatives has asked the federal government to provide automatic employment for first-class graduates. The legislators say this will address the issue of brain drain and keep young graduates from leaving the country. The lower legislative chamber passed the motion during plenary session on Wednesday following the adoption of a motion. The motion was sponsored by Chinedu Martins, a lawmaker representing Ahiazu Mbaise/Ezinihitte in Imo state. The legislator said granting automatic employment to first-class graduates will serve as a motivator for other students. He said while some private organisations prioritise the employment of first-class graduates — which is in line with global best practices, such is not found in government-owned institutions. According to the legislator, the country’s first-class graduates are “going jobless or leaving the country in droves” after their National Youth Service Scheme (NYSC) but the “lower grades whose relations are connected” get a better job offer. “Graduating in first-class in any institution of learning is an indication of a ‘grade A brain’ as the journey to such feat is not only characterised by the smartness or intellect of the graduating student but riddled with challenges such as superlative effort, resilient hard work, determination, and irrepressible stress, with a strong will that showcases the inability to accept failure in all circumstances,” Martins said. “Nigeria’s inability to leave the status of a ‘developing nation’ may not be unconnected with the insensitivity and lack of political will of the ruling class and policymakers to introduce a reward system in a way that the best brains will automatically occupy important positions according to their area of competence. “According to research, Nigeria has continued to unwittingly give away her best brains and intellectuals to other countries who by their robust policies on a value system, reward diligence and excellence, as evidenced in the way and manner that Nigeria has continued to export her highly-rated professionals such as medical doctors and nurses, who were unable to get jobs within the country after graduation. “First-class graduates are mostly needed in all fields of human endeavour, especially in Nigeria, where they can contribute in their areas of competence such as economic planning, manufacturing; small and medium scale enterprise, engineering and Infrastructure. “Such automatic offer of a job for first-class graduates will not only be a source of motivation for students in all fields to work harder, but maximise their potential in preparation for different economic roles, future leadership positions and ultimately reduce unemployment while helping to achieve development targets.” He added that if the government does not “urgently” establish a reward system for diligence and excellence, unemployment will grow and the country will continue to lose its best brains. The motion was unanimously adopted when it was put to a voice vote. The legislators subsequently asked the federal ministry of education to liaise with relevant government agencies “to ensure employment of first-class graduates of Nigerian institutions”. The house also mandated the committees on tertiary education and services, and employment, labour and productivity to ensure compliance.