As the 2023 elections draws close, stakeholders say diligent implementation of the Electoral Act 2022 and sensitisation of the electorate are measures that can guarantee credible polls. The stakeholders made the suggestion while speaking as panelists at the #FixPoliticsDialogues held virtually on Thursday. The programme was focused on discussing measures for ensuring free and fair elections. In February, President Muhammadu Buhari signed the electoral act amendment bill into law, and among new provisions in the electoral act is the electronic transmission of election results. Meanwhile, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has fixed February 25, 2023 for the presidential and national assembly elections, while governorship and state assembly elections will hold on March 11. Speaking at the #FixPoliticsDialogues, Oby Ezekwesili, a former minister of education and chairperson of FixPolitics, underlined the importance of sensitising Nigerians on the need to participate actively in elections, in order to disrupt what she described as “monopoly democracy”. On her part, Remi Sonaiya, coordinating co-chair of FixPolitics, encouraged Nigerians to hold regular discussions on political issues, so as to increase the level of political awareness and stop cultural bigotry. “What does it matter if the well-being of Nigerian citizens is met by a leader from any part of the country? What we need are leaders who will prioritise our country’s interests,” Sonaiya said. Oke Epia, executive director of OrderPaper Nigeria, urged Nigerians to pay more attention to the quality of lawmakers who will be elected to represent their interests at the national assembly. On the issue of INEC’s performance as a critical stakeholder in Nigeria’s democracy, Oke said the electoral body has always functioned according to its vision since its inception, but said there are still areas of concern. He urged the commission to ensure that the new electoral act is fully implemented. “This new law should be explained for citizens to grasp since we cannot be motivated to act if we are unaware of the benefits,” he said. Muhammad Kuna, sociologist at the Usman Dan Fodio University, who represented Mahmood Yakubu, the INEC chairman, said progress has been made throughout the years to ensure that the concept of INEC’s independence is realised. Kuna also said the country is suffering as a result of the intolerant political culture, a phenomenon he said was connected to the fact that many African politicians do not have the word ‘defeat’ in their language because of a “must-win mentality”. “We have witnessed great improvement in INEC, but the major thing is implementation on all the moves made so far by INEC, else it will be the same old story,” Ndi Kato, executive director of Dinidari Foundation, added. Also speaking, Anthony Ubani, executive director, FixPolitics, urged young people to organise themselves and register for their permanent voter cards (PVCs) and ensure that they vote for credible candidates.