No doubt, we had the best Super Eagles squad between 1994 and 1998. Some may even argue, from their own point of view, that the formidable squad lasted up until the year 2000 after the Africa Cup of Nations. Though Nigeria did not lift the AFCON in front of a mammoth home crowd at the National Stadium in Lagos in 2000, winning the trophy in Tunisia in 1994, qualifying for the World Cup for the very first time that year and making it to the second round, winning gold in the football event at the 1996 Olympics, qualifying for another World Cup in 1998, beating Spain 3-2 and qualifying from the group, were all great memories in the history of the Super Eagles. After the 1994 AFCON, World Cup and the 1996 Olympics, both held in the United States, Nigerian players who made the squads got big deals in top clubs across Europe. As a matter of fact, that was the genesis of the exodus of Nigerian players to play abroad. Nwankwo Kanu had a great outing at the Olympics in 1996. I remember vividly his two goals against Brazil in the semi-final where he scored in extra time to turn a 2–3 scoreline into a 4–3 win. That was a comeback some of us will never forget for the rest of our lives. What about the final game against Argentina? The South Americans were taught a lesson they will never forget in their history as Nigeria came from a 2-1 deficit to win 3-2. After the Olympics where Kanu captained the Dream Team to lift the trophy for the first time, he signed his second international contract with Inter Milan from Ajax where he had won the UEFA Champions League. He moved to England and joined Arsenal where he spent five years. I remember some of the wonderful goals Kanu scored for Arsenal during his time there, especially the ones against Chelsea. He is even the reason Arsenal grew a huge fan base in Nigeria. Papilo, as he is fondly called, is one of few players to have won the Premier League, FA Cup, Champions League, UEFA Cup and an Olympic Gold Medal. He is a legend of the game globally. No wonder he is a UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador. Jay-Jay Okocha is known for his dribbling skills. For him, football is a passion that he played to his satisfaction. After he showcased himself in France 98, top European clubs came begging for his signature and at the end of the day, he signed a deal to join Paris Saint-Germain, one of the best clubs in the world. Okocha went on to captain both English Premier League club Bolton Wanderers and the Super Eagles. Okocha won the 1994 AFCON, 1996 Olympics and played at the 1998 and 2002 World Cups. He is a legend. Victor Ikpeba, many remember him for that painful penalty miss against Cameroon at the final of the Ghana-Nigeria Africa Cup of Nations in 2000. That game also had the young Samuel Eto, tough defender Rigobert Song and many big names on the continent. After playing out a 2-2 draw at the end of 90 minutes and extra time, the penalty was to decide the winner that night. Nerves were frail, tensions were high, some sitting on the edge of their seat, while others were on their feet. When it got to Ikpeba’s turn to take the penalty, he hit the crossbar, the ball bounced to the floor and crossed the line. But Ikpeba had already put his hands on his head in regret of losing the penalty when the Tunisian referee, Mourad Daami, had not even made a decision. In the end, the penalty was controversially ruled out and Cameroon won the match and lifted the trophy. Nicknamed the Prince of Monaco, Ikpeba played for six years at AC Monaco, making 170 appearances, scoring 55 goals. He also played for Borussia Dortmund and Real Betis. Taribo West is a rock-solid defender, a confident central back. He marshalled the defence and warded off threats from the likes of Eto, El Hadji Diouf among others at the AFCON. He was part of the successful Dream Team in 1996 and played in two World Cups for the Super Eagles. He went on to play for Inter Milan and AC Milan after he had spent four years at Auxerre. With his trademark colourful hair, West made 42 appearances before retiring from international football. Daniel Amokachi, mostly remembered for his goal against Bulgaria at the 1994 World Cup and his sensational dance move, won the Olympics gold medal in 1996 and featured in two World Cups. He joined Everton after the 1994 World Cup and went on to win the FA Cup. The Bull made 44 appearances for the Super Eagles and scored 13 goals. The list goes on and on. Emmanuel Amuneke, Austin Eguavoen, Tijani Babangida, Mutiu Adepoju, Celestine Babayaro, Peter Rufai, Ike Shorunmu and Sunday Oliseh, among others, are some of the names one can easily remember from the top of their head because of their significant performances for the national team. On the flip side, George Oppong Weah is today the President of Liberia. He was a former footballer, dedicating 18 years of his life to the round leather game. He is the only African player to have won the Ballon d’Or. He had spells with AC Monaco, PSG, AC Milan, Chelsea and Manchester City. After his playing career, Weah decided to package himself for the bigger picture. He threw his hat into the ring without success at first. After another attempt, he won the presidential election and replaced Africa’s first female president, Ellen Sirleaf Johnson. Weah knew his worth, he knew he deserved better and can offer far more to the Liberian people than take peanuts from politicians to run campaigns for them. He didn’t gather his former colleagues and cajole them to support an older aspirant. He wasn’t looking at the current picture but a bigger tomorrow for himself and his country. He failed in his first attempt, he didn’t give up, he tried again and again and finally got the people’s vote, but that was after he had proved himself at the senate. He remained focused and became the president at the age of 51. He wasn’t a food-baller, but an ex-footballer who knows his onions. Samuel Eto is currently the President of Cameroon FA. As one of the wealthiest African players alive, Eto has the option to stay back in Spain and spend the rest of his life enjoying his money. But he didn’t, he returned home to vie for the office of Cameroon FA president and got it. Amidst Covid-19 fears and after early postponement, Eto organised the 2021 AFCON in Cameroon where his country also made it to the semi-final. Eto didn’t throw his reputation out of the window for financial gains, or one lazy political appointment, he rather fought for his own deserved position and did not settle for less. While there’s nothing wrong with felicitating with a celebrant on the occasion of their birthday or any other happy moment, the fervent prayer offered by Pastor Taribo West at Bola Tinubu’s residence on Saturday, in the presence of his former colleagues, calls for sober reflection. In the viral video, West took the honour of leading prayers and he did not disappoint on his calling. He fervently prayed for the celebrant and commanded the name of Bola Ahmed Tinubu to stand on the throne of the presidency of Nigeria. His former teammate, Peter Rufai, said they were all ”here to celebrate you and to support you as our incoming president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria”. Some Nigerians may not fault their decision to support a presidential candidate, but many are no doubt disappointed at how these football legends have belittled themselves. Last year, Kanu and John Obi Mikel showed their support for Kogi state governor Yahaya Bello’s presidential ambition. They travelled to Lokoja on taxpayer’s money to sign jerseys and endorse the boxing governor. But today, the pendulum has switched to Tinubu, he is the highest bidder at the moment. That is why a 47-year-old Taribo West, who himself should be holding or vying for a political post like Weah, is rather praying and speaking in tongues for a 70-year-old man to take Nigeria to the next level. The opposite should be the case but for the unambitious ex-footballers who would rather get paid for offering prayers, than be prayed for to achieve a bigger dream. Who says if Okocha contests for a senatorial seat in Delta state or even the governor of Enugu state, he won’t get elected? Why won’t the people vote en-masse for Kanu if he vies for the post of the governor of Imo state? No, they won’t because politics is a dirty game, then I ask – which is dirtier, contesting for the political post or the event that played out at the weekend? It is unfortunate that these sets of players have not even reached any heights higher than the chairman of a state FA, none of them has even become Nigeria Football Federation president, none. Maybe they don’t know their potential, maybe they underrate themselves, maybe they don’t know the power they carry outside of football, maybe they don’t realise the massive love and support Nigerians have for them, maybe they think they are not good enough. Most Nigerians feel embarrassed that those they respect and see as their football heroes have now been reduced to mere members of political supporters clubs. This is a wake-up call to let these legends know how valuable they are to Nigerians. We want our ex-internationals to have dignity and respect for themselves and the profession they enjoyed massive fans support, and stop disappointing their fans. Footballers must not see themselves as unuseful when they hang their books. Most players end their football career in their 30s or even much younger, they must realise that this gives them the opportunity to begin another career, riding on the back of their achievements in football, and politics is one of those careers. We want our legends to graduate from food-ballers to honourable, governors and presidents. Ojoko is a Nigerian journalist and can be reached via israelojoko14@gmail.com