The Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) says it is partnering with the Association of Corporate Affairs Managers of Banks (ACAMB) to bridge the gap in the perception and reputation management in Nigeria’s banking sector. CIBN gave the assurance on partnership and collaboration last Thursday when the newly inaugurated ACAMB executives paid a courtesy call on the council and executive management of CIBN at Bankers House in Lagos. Speaking during the meeting, Rasheed Bolarinwa, president of ACAMB, said the relationship between both bodies has led to the robust development of the banking and financial industry in the country. He noted that they could achieve more especially in the area of bridging perception and reputation management in the banking and financial services sector together. He said there is a negative perception among customers generally on the issues of bank charges. Customers, in other instances, feel banks are not doing enough for them especially as regards accessing loans and other benefits. “Meanwhile, the banks are doing everything within regulatory means but most of these customers lack the basic information to access the products and services. Aside from this, customers these days do not have the patience to engage Banks and follow through on service issues before making a show of such on social media at the expense of banks’ images,” he said. “We also have the issue of hackers becoming threats to the banking and financial industry in general. These, among other emerging issues in the sector, are some of the areas ACAMB is seeking partnership and collaboration with CIBN. We believe deliberate action plans by both bodies coupled with individual efforts of respective Deposit Money Banks (DMBs) will go a long way in addressing these challenges.” Earlier, Bolarinwa appreciated CIBN for its various advocacy moves aimed at entrenching banking practice in Nigeria’s financial space. He further commended the institute for its legacy learning projects in six higher institutions spread across the six geo-political zones and for giving ACAMB a permanent seat in the Ad-hoc Committee on the Annual Bankers Conference/Dinner. “We want to specifically commend CIBN for its consistent efforts at ensuring a healthy and competitive banking and financial industry in Nigeria,” he said. “Notable amongst the various strides of the institute, is its consistent and professional discharge of advocacy roles, organisation of annual world-class banking and finance conference which peaked with that of 2021 where two sitting Presidents; Presidents Muhammadu Buhari (Nigeria) and Paul Kagame (Rwanda) were in attendance; as well as the Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Prof Yemi Osinbajo.” Responding on behalf of the institute, Bayo Olugbemi, president/chairman, CIBN, commended ACAMB for the visit and expressed optimism about the positive role ACAMB had played over the years to shape a positive image for Nigeria’s banking sector. Olugbemi said CIBN would continue to partner with ACAMB to guard the image of the banking and financial services industry. He also assured the ACAMB executives that the CIBN would not relent in its various advocacy and capacity-building roles to deepen professionalism among bankers and better the industry at large.