Abubakar Malami, attorney-general of the federation (AGF) and minister of justice, says he has no plan to resign. While delivering a keynote address on Thursday at a media conference organised by the National Association of Judiciary Correspondents (NAJUC), Abuja chapter, Malami described reports of his purported resignation to further a political ambition as “fake news”. He added that there needs to be sanctions for persons who publish “fake” reports. “Many public officers have been victims of malicious media reports — mischievous and deliberate distortion of facts,” he said. “No doubt, the media is important in shaping public opinion, but hate speech and fake news challenge our cherished and collective culture of peaceful and harmonious co-existence as a people. “You are journalists in the Nigerian justice sector because Nigeria exists as an entity. We cannot afford to spill the beans on account of mischievous actions and inactions of some who claim to be journalists. “There has to consequences for the conduct of the journalists that offer themselves to conscription by agents of destruction that make it their stock in trade to spread fake information about personalities and issues. “Effective legislative framework may be a considerable option. I am happy we are addressing these issues at conferences, symposia and workshops. Your input in this direction would be very much welcome. “It is high time that we enhance media literacy for Nigerians to appreciate fact-checking and verification of information. “Many who relied on some unprofessional information disseminators will be taken aback that the Malami that was claimed to have resigned as attorney-general of the federation and minister of justice was still seen in office discharging his functions, including attending the federal executive council meeting yesterday, granting interviews to journalists and still today declaring this conference open as the AGF. “There is naturally an end to everything. My tenure in office has not yet ended. I pray for a glorious end.” The minister advised journalists to always verify information before sharing, considering the activities around the forthcoming general election. “I call on journalists to refrain from fake news, defamation, sedition, hate speech, blasphemy, and incitements of inflammatory statements in their reportage that could jeopardise our corporate existence as a nation and hamper the peace we have been enjoying,” he said. “With the 2023 general election approaching, I hope this conference will address the practice where journalists would be conscripted by agents of destruction to spread false information about personalities and issues. Unprofessional media practitioners have been reporting untrue and fabricated information against public office holders.”