Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Lagos state governor, has honoured 100 women for their contribution to the progressive development of the state. The program themed, ‘Eko Women 100’, identifies and honours women who are blazing the trail in their fields while boosting the growth of the state and inspiring the next generation. The women were drawn from all parts of the state, across various fields and strata of society. Each honoree received a personal letter of recognition from the governor, showing appreciation for their commitment to excellence. Speaking about the initiative, Sanwo-Olu said, “The women of Lagos are powerful, visionary and represent our great state at the highest level globally.” “This week, we celebrated 100 of them in a project called #Eko100Women. These women have made Lagos their home bringing their expertise and excellence to great effect. “From arts to technology, business to sports, we touched on as many industries as possible. “In my special letter to each woman, I charged them to continue to demonstrate the unstoppable spirit and values of Lagos.” Some of the women honoured on this year’s list include Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, wife of Lagos state governor; Ibukun Awosika, business tycoon; Mo Abudu, media mogul; Kofoworola Bucknor-Akerele, elder stateswoman; Nneka Onyeali-Ikpe, Fidelity Bank MD; Miriam Olusanya, GTBank MD, Winifred Akpani, MD, CEO of North-West Petroleum, amongst others. Expressing gratitude for the gesture, many of the recipients acknowledged the honour of the state government. In her remarks, Bolanle Austen-Peters, founder, Terra-Kulture and one of the honorees, said, “I understand that recognitions such as this are worthy of celebration because this shows that the government is aware of the little contributions we all make to keep this nation alive.” Rolake Akinkugbe-Filani, chief commercial officer, Mixta Africa, emphasised the significance of the initiative for Lagos women. “I’m receiving this on behalf of all the heroines of Lagos state, building silently, building to last, building a legacy, doing great work, doing impactful work in the public and private sector, who often go unnoticed,” she said. “You, my sisters, are the real centre of excellence and the real MVPs. May your labour of love never be in vain, and may your dreams come true.”