Nigeria Air Limited, the country’s proposed national carrier, says it has applied to the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) for a licence to operate scheduled and non-scheduled passenger and cargo services. The company said this in a public notice as part of the requirements for granting an Air Operating Licence. The notice stated that any person or organisation with objection should make it known before 28 days expire. “This is to inform the general public that Messrs Nigeria Air Limited has applied to the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) for the grant of an Air Transport License (ATL) to operate scheduled and non-scheduled passenger and cargo services within and outside Nigeria,” the notice reads. “Any person or organisation that has an objection or representation with regards to this application should do so within 28 days from the date of this application. “Such objection or representation should be forwarded to: The Director-General
Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority
Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport
Domestic Wing
Abuja.” Nigeria Air further listed its three-member board of directors/ trustees, namely Alexander Musa Adeyemi, Mohammed Shuaibu Naibi and Mohammed Rabiu Shehu. Checks by TheCable showed that the company, Nigeria Air Limited, registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) since July 18th, 2018. Earlier this month, the federal government asked private sector partners to submit proposals for the takeover of the national carrier. “To this end, the FGN, through the federal ministry of aviation, is inviting interested private parties to submit proposals for the take-over and further development of the National Carrier, the recently launched ‘Nigeria Air’ to take advantage of the opportunities of the largest market in Africa,” according to a statement from the ministry. “The private sector partners/consortia are expected to comprise an International Airline (max. 49% shares), and Nigerian Financial and Institutional Investors (min. 46% shares), so that the total Nigerian shareholding will hold a minimum of 51% of the shares of Nigeria Air’ (including the 5% non-interactive FGN share), as required by international laws for a National Carrier.”