Umar Danbatta, executive vice-chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), says the agency will continually drive initiatives to accelerate the deployment of digital infrastructure. Ikechukwu Adinde, NCC director of public affairs, said in a statement issued on Tuesday, According to the statement, Danbatta said this while speaking at the NCC Day, at the recently-concluded 43rd Kaduna International Trade Fair. The event was organised by the Kaduna Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (KADCCIMA). Danbatta was represented at the event by Attah Ogbadu, a senior manager at NCC. Speaking on the theme ‘Strategising Nigerian Economy for Global Competitiveness’, Danbatta said the NCC has been at the heart of providing the digital impetus for transforming the businesses and sustaining socio-economic activities in Nigeria. He stated that due to the COVID-19-induced economic downturn and continued volatility, many countries were exploring policies to stimulate growth and create new jobs. “Information Communications Technology (ICT) is one of the fastest-growing industries because it triggers the creation of millions of jobs and therefore an enabler of innovation and socio-economic development,” Danbatta said. The EVC also asserted that while the COVID-19 pandemic came with its attendant challenges, the commission has continued to work assiduously with various stakeholders to see how more businesses can embrace digital platforms for delivering their services to the consumers. He explained that NCC was also paying attention to ensuring a level-playing ground for operators to promote investment and the delivery of innovative services to individual consumers, small and medium enterprises (SMEs), and big business owners by ensuring enhanced consumer quality of experience. “So, as a regulator, we also ensure we constantly inform you, the consumers, on how to be protected to prevent cases of online fraud and otherwise ensure you do not fall victims to cybercrimes while using the internet, legitimately,” Danbatta added. Also speaking at the NCC Day forum, Suleiman Aliyu, KADCCIMA president, commended NCC for its regular and impactful attendance and participation at the trade fair. Aliyu said the critical impact of the communications sector on the nation’s economic output was evident in its contribution to the gross domestic product (GDP). According to Aliyu, “the competitiveness of Nigeria would depend on our ability to leverage new technologies in light of the rapid growth of the number of active mobile subscriptions, internet subscribers, and broadband penetration, indices of telecom sector’s mark as one of the fastest-growing sectors in the country”.