Chinelo Nwando Megafu, a dental surgeon, has died from the wounds she sustained in the deadly attack on the Abuja-Kaduna train on Monday night. TheCable had reported that the train was on its way from Abuja to Kaduna when it was attacked by gunmen in Kateri-Rijana area of Kaduna. The gunmen were said to have blown up the rail track after which they launched an attack on the passengers. Several passengers sustained injuries during the attack, but as of the time of filing this report there is no official number of casualties. Shortly after the attack, Chinelo posted on her Twitter handle that she was shot in the train, while calling for prayers from her followers. I'm in the train .  I have been shot please pray for me. — Chinelo (@nelo_x) March 28, 2022  Her tweet elicited varied reactions on the microblogging platform as some Twitter users empathised with her, while others described her tweet as “fake news”. Some Twitter users also said she could not have tweeted with gunshot wounds. On Tuesday, the Nigerian Twitter space was flooded with posts saying the doctor has died from the gunshot wounds she sustained from the attack. One of Chinelo’s colleagues told TheCable that the doctor has died. The development came 48 hours after gunmen attacked Kaduna international airport. Some Twitter reactions: It's the same people who defend this administration that came out to mock a fellow Nigerian who was shot on the train People who have no conscience, no empathy Dr Chinelo is dead now, are you happy?Are your paymasters pleased with you? Vile, depraved beings! Scum of the earth pic.twitter.com/kBtD6yo0O8 — Dr. Chinonso Egemba (@aproko_doctor) March 29, 2022  All Chinelo said was "Pray for me." That is all she said. She was then targeted and subjected to abuse by a group of vile and evil creatures. Cos she was shot and asked for prayers so she could survive. This thing hurt me to my marrows!!! — 20.10.2020 (@I_Am_Ilemona) March 29, 2022  Rest in Peace, Chinelo. Nigeria happened to you! https://t.co/pzJM3MGD6a pic.twitter.com/GXLv4KOyck — Segun Precious #MrPresident2023 (@PreciousSegun) March 29, 2022  Just woke up to a sad news My friend just woke up to losing a close friend who was shot at the Abuja Kaduna train incident by terrorists She tweeted yesterday that we should pray for her. Sadly she didn't make it. She was a Doctor Nigeria why..I'm heartbroken — The_Bearded_Dr_Sina (@the_beardedsina) March 29, 2022  Chinelo didn't make it.  living in Nigeria is a death sentence. — Wolfie  (@TheIgboWolf) March 29, 2022  The attacks on Chinelo as she lay dying don't shock me. When Buhari Jega was killed in Gyelsu, his "friends" including he-who-cried, justified it. I knew then that these people aren't human. One who loses his humanity over politics will defend your murder. God rest the dead. — Chxta (@Chxta) March 29, 2022  Those same set of people that attacked the late Chinelo are the same set that attacked and trolled me when the police brutalized me. These are sycophants who are loyal only to their political gods. They care not for this country and have no conscience whatsoever left in them. — MrMacaroni (@mrmacaronii) March 29, 2022  Incase you are wondering why she is not here to reply all of you that accused her of doing it for the clout, Dr Chinelo is Dead..Nigeria has failed one of us again. https://t.co/ubuZiKKl5j — Scott_P (@anchellottii) March 29, 2022  All Chinelo said was "Pray for me." That is all she said. She was then targeted and subjected to abuse by a group of vile and evil creatures. Cos she was shot and asked for prayers so she could survive. This thing hurt me to my marrows!!! — 20.10.2020 (@I_Am_Ilemona) March 29, 2022  Our thoughts & prayers dey with the family & friends of Chinelo. God go give una the strength to bear the loss. Rest in Peace Nigeria don fail you.   pic.twitter.com/K57xYYLbSI — Man United in Pidgin (@ManUtdInPidgin) March 29, 2022  She spent her last hours being abused by ‘patriots’; because she asked for help and prayers as she lay dying.  #chinelo — Ose Anenih (@ose_anenih) March 29, 2022  Rest in Peace, Chinelo. Nigeria happened to you! https://t.co/pzJM3MGD6a pic.twitter.com/GXLv4KOyck — Segun Precious #MrPresident2023 (@PreciousSegun) March 29, 2022  “I'm in the train .  I have been shot please pray for me.” was her last tweet 10hours ago and many of you used her to chase clout. Now she's dead and you're all deleting your hot takes Many of you are heartless!!!Many of you lack empathy!!! Dr. Chinelo R.I.P — SportsDokita (Odogwu) (@Sports_Doctor2) March 29, 2022  Dr Chinelo was making an honest living, she was working at St Gerald's hospital in Kaduna, she wanted more for herself and processed her papers to leave this hell-hole. She resigned last month to leave the country this Friday then this happened. Nigeria why??? — Lady S (@Stephadamu) March 29, 2022 