Nigeria on Thursday recorded 33 cases of COVID-19 infections. Here are five updates about the pandemic this Friday. ‘Global COVID death toll three times higher than reported’ In a new study, researchers have estimated that from the start of 2020 to the end of 2021, there have been at least 18 million more deaths from COVID-19 worldwide than reported. Official reports through the end of 2021 show that six million people have died of COVID-19. The researchers analysed all-cause mortality for 187 countries, using weekly or monthly reported data when available and creating models to estimate for others. They found that seven countries accounted for more than half of all excess deaths over the past two years: India, the United States, Russia, Mexico, Brazil, Indonesia and Pakistan. According to the study, for every 1,000 people in the world, the pandemic caused more than one excess death over the course of two years. Africa CDC signs MOU with Pfizer The Africa Centre for Disease Control (CDC) has signed a memorandum of understanding with Pfizer to bring supplies of its Paxlovid antiviral COVID-19 pills to the continent. “The memorandum of understanding is with the legal office at the AU,” John Nkengasong, director of the Africa CDC, said on Thursday. Nkengasong said African countries should be using a combination of public health measures, vaccines, testing and other treatments in their efforts to overcome the COVID-19 pandemic this year. US extends mask mandate on aeroplanes, public transit The US transportation security administration (TSA) says it will extend its mask mandate for aeroplanes and other public transportation till mid-April. It said the requirement will extend at least through April 18 at the recommendation of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and will apply to public transportation and transportation hubs. The current requirements were set to expire on March 18. Under the TSA’s rule, passengers on aeroplanes, buses and trains and at airports and transit stations must wear masks. Austria suspends compulsory vaccination Austria has decided to suspend its mandate for compulsory COVID-19 vaccinations for over 18-year-olds, days before it was due to start enforcing it. The government said it now considers it disproportionate to the threat posed by the Omicron variant. Johannes Rauch, the country’s health minister, said the decision would be reviewed again in three months and could be reintroduced if a new variant made it necessary. Nigeria logs 33 COVID infections Nigeria has recorded 33 COVID-19 infections across the country. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) provided a breakdown of the fresh infections as shown below. Lagos-23 Rivers-6 Imo-2 FCT-1 Kaduna-1 Data from the NCDC showed that 19 persons were discharged after they recovered from COVID-19 infections. For the 20th day in a row, no death was reported. The report for Thursday includes a backlog of 23 cases for Lagos state from March 9 (18) and 10 (5). It also includes a backlog of one case reported for Kaduna from February 28. With the new cases, Nigeria has now recorded 254,894 infections, 249,326 recoveries and 3,142 fatalities.