MTN says it will be offering free international calls and SMS to all existing prepaid and postpaid customers in response to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. The company made this known in a statement on Thursday. MTN said the offer is aimed at supporting customers to stay in touch with their loved ones while eliminating associated international direct dialling (IDD) costs due to high international telecommunication regulations (ITR) to Ukraine. Karl Toriola, chief executive officer of MTN Nigeria, said the telco was aware that some of its customers in Ukraine experienced challenges in contacting their loved ones. “As a result, we have stepped in with support to ensure that our customers, both at home and in Ukraine, are still able to connect with family and friends,” Toriola said. “All of our customers will benefit from the waived SMS and voice call fees to and from Ukraine. This blanket waiver has been put in place as an immediate response to the need.” Sources disclosed that each existing active subscriber on the network would receive 30 mins of free voice calls and 50 free SMS. According to them, the offer will be valid all through March, and customers will be able to check minutes/SMS allocated, volume used, balance and expiry date. Furthermore, unused complimentary minutes will expire on 31st March or any earlier date as advised across all phone numbers and will not rollover. MTN said it has also anticipated concerns about connection issues and has implemented surefire measures to ensure uninterrupted connectivity. “We’ve worked closely with our industry body GSMA to make the connection easier. Whilst MTN does not have operations in Ukraine, we have heeded the call to remain responsive to our customers in their time of need.” the statement adds. MTN’s intervention comes as Russian troops push further into Ukraine, with hundreds of thousands, including Nigerians, stranded and fleeing the country for safety. Citing data from the government, an estimated 4,000 Nigerians were studying in tertiary institutions across Ukraine in 2020 — the highest number of African indigenes in the country, alongside Morocco.