Bola Tinubu, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), says despite achieving democracy, Nigeria is still “unstable” and needs “serious change”. Speaking on Thursday during a consultation with members of the Ekiti traditional council in Ado-Ekiti, Tinubu said he is in the 2023 presidential race to bring hope to the people and effect the changes the country desires. He said the country is in dire need of a leader who can unite the people, tackle insecurity and bring about the desired socio-economic development. He said the consultation with the traditional rulers was in furtherance of his 2023 presidential aspiration and to get the prayers and support of the royal fathers. “We have struggled for democracy and today we have democracy but we are not stable yet. By now, we should have a good farming system and opportunities to produce for other nations to buy,” he said. “We chose democracy and we must not fail in this task. I’m in this race to renew hope and make the future great for our children. “For Nigeria to stand united and develop, we require patience and wisdom. We have to be united; that is the only way we can be great. That was why we formed APC based on principles. “I want to tell you that Nigeria needs serious change. I knew how Lagos was when I took over and we had never failed any election.” He said there must be continuity in governance for progress to be attained. “I was with MKO Abiola in SDP. I was a senator before he came out. I was the youngest senator of that era,” he said. “We believed that there must be democracy in Nigeria, there must be freedom and there must be opportunities. “We have to collaborate, unite and promote ourselves instead of fighting. We all see what is happening in Ukraine today. We don’t need such experience here.” Also speaking, Dayo Adeyeye, national chairman of south-west agenda 2023 (SWAGA), said Tinubu has made great investments toward promoting the development of Ekiti. “That APC is in Ekiti today is traceable to God and Tinubu. He struggled for it and restored progressive politics here. He has made many Ekiti people commissioners, special advisers, and local government chairmen in Lagos,” Adeyeye said. “Tinubu honoured our own hero in Ekiti — Adekunle Fajuyi — by building a house for him. He has helped so many people, including myself. “Tinubu brought a paradigm shift to governance in Lagos. In fact, he is a miracle worker. “As a governor of Lagos state, he was ranked first and no wonder he remained the last man standing when the then AD lost grip of the south-west.” Responding, Gabriel Adejumo, the Onisan of Isan-Ekiti and chairman of the traditional council, said the constitution permits every qualified Nigerian to aspire for any position. He prayed for God’s guidance and protection to help Tinubu realise his ambition.