Nigeria on Friday recorded 51 cases of COVID-19. Here are five updates about the pandemic this Saturday. Kenya removes remaining COVID-19 restrictions Kenya on Friday relaxed its remaining COVID-19 restrictions, including a ban on large indoor gatherings such as religious services. Arriving air passengers are no longer required to present a negative COVID-19 test on arrival. Mutahi Kagwe, health minister, who made the announcement, said Kenyans would only need to heed public health measures such as handwashing and social distancing. Kagwe said face masks are no longer mandatory in public and all quarantine measures for confirmed COVID-19 cases are suspended with immediate effect. NGOs seek end to COVID vaccine production monopoly The sole control of COVID-19 vaccines, testing, and treatments by “large” pharmaceutical companies continues to put the world at risk of the virus’s next lethal form. Oyebisi Oluseyi, NNNGO executive director, said this at a news conference in Lagos. “Heading into our third year of the pandemic, billions of people worldwide still don’t have access to COVID-19 vaccines and treatment,” Oluseyi said. “Meanwhile, pharmaceutical companies are recording profits of over one million dollars per hour. “The lack of strong government action in the face of pharmaceutical monopoly greed is causing thousands of needless deaths each day,” he said. Nigeria logs 51 infections Nigeria has recorded 51 cases of COVID-19 across the country. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) said the new cases were logged in four states and the federal capital territory (FCT). A breakdown of the infections is presented below: FCT-37
Lagos-9
Kano-2
Rivers-2
Plateau-1 Data from the agency showed nine persons were discharged after they recovered from the infection. Meanwhile, no death was recorded on Friday. The NCDC said the two infections in Kano were logged on March 10 and 11. Nigeria now has a total of 254,945 cases, 249,335 recoveries and 3,142 deaths in the 36 states and the FCT. Strategic engagement by religious leaders critical in combating COVID, says Christian Aid Christian Aid, an international non-profit organisation, says the strategic engagement of religious leaders with citizens is critical to combating COVID-19 in Africa. Christian Aid made the comment at a high-level virtual conversation on COVID-19 vaccine access and uptake in Africa. Jeanne Kamara, country director of Christian Aid in Sierra Leone, said Africa has been slow to accept vaccines owing to religious and superstitious beliefs. “The voice of religious leaders is critical in making sure that the narrative is changed, so people can protect themselves and their families against COVID-19,” Kamara said. Israel lifts COVID test for pupils Israeli health authorities have lifted the COVID-19 testing mandate for elementary and kindergarten children. The ministry of health says pupils are no longer needed to complete a home test twice a week prior to attending campus. The ministry has also waived weekly symptom reporting for upper-grade students and their family members who stay in a co-living environment. 