The caretaker extraordinary convention planning committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) says political appointees elected as delegates won’t be allowed to vote during the convention. The convention is scheduled to hold on March 26. According to a statement posted on the Twitter handle of the convention committee on Thursday, the decision to bar political appointees from voting is in “view of the controversy surrounding section 84(12) of the Electoral Act, 2022”. The party, however, said the political appointees could still attend the convention, but as observers. “The National Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee of APC has declared that all political appointees who were elected as delegates to the National Convention slated for 26/3/2022 SHALL NOT VOTE in view of the controversy surrounding Section 84 (12) of the Electoral Act,2022,” the notice reads. “However, political appointees can still attend as observers. Please circulate to those concerned and treat as very important.” ATTENTION TO POLITICAL OFFICE HOLDERS WHO WERE ELECTED AS DELEGATES.
The National Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee of APC has declared that all political appointees who were elected as delegates to the National Convention slated for 26/3/2022 SHALL NOT VOTE — APC National Convention 2022 (@APCNatConv22) March 24, 2022  The development comes amid the controversy over section 84(12) of the electoral act which states: “No political appointee at any level shall be a voting delegate or be voted for at the convention or congress of any political party for the purpose of the nomination of candidates for any election.” While assenting to the electoral act, President Muhammadu Buhari had asked the national assembly to delete the section, but lawmakers have insisted that the provision is necessary to ensure credible elections. Following the development, a federal high court in Umuahia, the Abia capital, had asked the attorney-general of the federation to delete the section on the grounds that it violates the provision of the constitution. Abubakar Malami, attorney-general of the federation (AGF), had said the federal government would ensure compliance with the court judgment. However, the national assembly has said it would appeal the judgment.