George Ehusani, a catholic priest and an author, says Nigerians will have a better country if they read his books and follow the principles therein. He said this at a book festival organised to unveil seven of his publications in Abuja, on Saturday. The cleric said the reading culture in Nigeria is “pathetic”, adding that Nigerians use social media solely for entertainment rather than information. Ehusani, who said writing is the best way he expresses himself about societal issues, added that reading and writing is what helps a human being grow. “The social teachings of the christain church are about human dignity, human rights, common good, democracy. So people who read those books will come and see how I have analysed the circumstances we are in and how if we follow these principles we will get a better country,” Ehusani said. “Writing is perhaps my best way of expressing my feelings and what I feel about society and the issues in society. A lot of my writings are about what is happening in society and how I feel about it and for the past 30 years I have been engaged in that. “The reading culture is really pathetic. We have not handled very well the entrance of social media into our society. Social media is a wonderful thing but a lot of our people today are using it only for the entertainment angle. “Every means of information is supposed to be for information, education and entertainment but if 90 percent of our use of social media is only for entertainment then we are not been educated. And you can never replace books, books are so important, you don’t grow a human being without reading.” He advised parents and schools to encourage the culture of reading at home and in schools in order for the younger generation to be able to “conquer the world”. In his keynote address, Matthew Kukah, Catholic bishop of Sokoto diocese, commended Ehusani for contributing toward reviving the reading culture in Nigeria, adding that he is giving back to society by transmitting knowledge. The seven books unveiled include: Nigeria: More years Eaten by the Locust, Growing in Christ, Conversion to Christ, An Afro-Christian Vision “Ozovehe!” -Towards A More Humanized World, Sunday Homilies Year A,B and C.