The Black Stars of Ghana dimmed the lights in the Abuja sky, preventing the Super Eagles from taking flight towards Qatar for the 2022 FIFA World Cup. Thomas Partey started the party in the 9th minute which — despite the best effort from the Nigerian players and the capacity crowd at the MKO stadium in the nation’s capital — failed to stop another dark day for Nigerian football in this storied West African derby as Ghana secured victory on away goals rule following 1-1 aggregate draw against Nigeria. Despite the array of stars in the team, TheCable rates how the wobbling Eagles failed to book their tickets to Qatar. Francis Uzoho (1/5): Started comfortably but just like Maduka Okoye, fell victim to the goalkeeper’s curse- error. Another game, another Super Eagles keeper’s error and he was fidgety all evening. Not ready to have a future in this seemingly good but rudderless team. Ola Aina (2/5): He was more on the attacking foot, leaving a huge gap behind from where Ghana capitalized due to the defensive screen in front of him not doing their job. He was also a threat in attack but gave those around him anxious moments in defence. William Troost-Ekong (2/5): He continued to prove he is the leader of this team on and off the pitch. Ekong marshalled the backline well enough and grabbed the ball to dispatch the penalty kick when other players were unsure. Shame his effort was only enough to enjoy a winter holiday in December. Leon Balogun (2/5): Another average display from the Rangers man who covered excellently for Bassey and was eager to bring the ball out of attack even though his accuracy with the pass was off on the night. Calvin Bassey (1/5): Baptism of fire for the left-back who was porous in dangerous situations but was rescued by his teammates. Oghenekaro Etebo (2/5): Combative in the heart of midfield but was not as reliable as Wilfred Ndidi. His batting promess that led to an offside goal from Victor Osimhen was a good one — but this was a rarity from the Sheffield United man. Joe Aribo (2/5): Languid as usual but Ghana’s tough tackling and a hard pitch lacking the zip combined to slow him down. He also lost concentration on numerous occasions where he could have delivered the killer pass but failed to collect the ball. He went deeper in the second period and contributed to a midfield that slept in the face of no pressure from the Black Stars. Frank Onyeka (1/5): Perhaps the midfielder who is a fringe player at Brentford was not suited for a game of this magnitude and his lapse in positional awareness and defensive duties led to Ghana taking the lead. He was hauled off at halftime. Ademola Lookman (2/5): Flashy touches and turn of pace here and there as Eguavoen preferred him to Moses Simon but he soon lost the spark as the game wore on. Lookman needs to be eased into this team that had Iheanacho on the bench for the entirety of the match. Emmanuel Dennis (2.5/5): Although he could not completely lift the Super Eagles, his excellent display should dispel the lack of patriotism rumours. The Watford striker’s excellent runs and ball retention skills led to a penalty but fell short as service dried up from an inexistent midfield. Victor Osimhen (2.5./5): Showed grit and displays as usual and kept the Ghanaian defence on its toes for the entirety of the match. However, his audacious scissors kicks did not find the desired range. Substitutes Abdullahi Shehu (1/5): On for Onyeka and his position was initially unsure. The Omonia Nicoasia defender was full of running but looked short of ideas or instructions. Moses Simon (N/A): The usually dashing winger has been off the boil in recent games and his substitute appearance failed to lift the beleaguered team. Ahmed Musa (N/A):  Another throw of the dice but no spark. Odion Ighalo (N/A): On to replace Dennis but lacked service from an absent midfield. Umar Sadiq (N/A): The last throw of the dice as Nigeria put up a feeble, inexistent late charge.