The Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) says its newly-created directorate of politics and governance has nothing to do with Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo. Olaitan Olubiyi, RCCG spokesman, said this on Friday in an interview with Punch. In a memo dated February 28 and addressed to all provinces and regions, the church said it had created the office of directorate of politics and governance to support its members interested in going into politics. “We write to formally notify you that the mission authority has created the Office of Directorate of Politics and Governance in the RCCG,” the memo reads. “Further to this, Pastor Timothy Olaniyan (PICP Lagos Province 12) has been appointed to lead the Office. “You are kindly requested to appoint with immediate effect a Provincial Officer for your province and also ensure that the same is done at all levels of the church – zone, area and parish. “The essence of this directorate is to help coordinate the engagement of our people who are willing to be involved in politics as well as mobilise support for them when required.” The announcement of the directorate had fuelled speculations on social media that the church was trying to to mobilise support for the supposed presidential ambition of Osinbajo, who is a pastor in the church. Olubiyi, however, said the creation of the department had nothing to do with Osinbajo, adding that the directorate was created to sensitise church members on active political participation, including getting their permanent voter cards ahead of the 2023 elections. He said the church has been creating political awareness for its members since the transition from military to civil rule, and that there was nothing new about the development. The spokesman added that Christians cannot afford to act ignorantly by staying off politics because the choice of political leadership affects the entire wellbeing of any people. He, therefore, advised other churches in Nigeria to emulate the activities of the church by sensitising their members to be actively involved in politics.