Ikengaonline, an online newspaper, will debut to draw attention to the south-east and hold the five state governments accountable to good governance. A press statement issued by Osmund Agbo and Chido Onumah, renowned journalist, said the newspaper which is the media arm of the African Centre for Transparency (ACT) will be launched on Thursday, March 31, 2022. It said the newspaper will highlight underreported issues in the south-east, adding that a lack of good governance has led to a deterioration of the security situation in the region. “Ikengaonline will focus on the five southeast states of Abia, Anambra, Ebonyi, Enugu and Imo. The aim is to draw attention to the challenges facing the southeast, give voice to the citizens of the zone and highlight many issues that are underreported and misreported in the media,” the statement reads. “The southeast has been punching way below its weight since Nigeria’s return to democratic governance in 1999 and it is not hard to notice the correlation between lack of accountability and poor governance and the deteriorating security situation in the zone. “Ikengaonline will maintain a healthy distance from the state in a way that will foster media independence and focus sufficient searchlight on the activities of political office holders in the southeast to promote accountability and good governance. “Renowned author and scholar, Professor Okey Ndibe, will present a keynote address during the launch while Dr Kole Shettima, Africa Director of MacArthur Foundation, and Motunrayo Alaka, Executive Director of the Wole Soyinka Centre for Investigative Journalism, will deliver goodwill messages.” Also expected at the virtual launch are Adolphous Wabara, former senate president; Mike Ahamba (SAN); Joe Abah, Nigeria country Director, DAI; Joy Ezeilo, former United Nations special rapporteur, and Abigail Ogwezzy-Ndisika, communication for development specialist. According to the statement, the newspaper which is supported by The John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation through the Wole Soyinka Centre for Investigative Journalism, will be edited by Uche Ugboajah, a development journalist.