Lagos state Internal Revenue Service (LIRS), says all taxpayers in the state should file annual tax returns on or before March 31, 2022, to avoid penalties for insubordination. These individual taxpayers include self-employed persons and employees under the PAYE Scheme in Lagos State which is mandatory within 90 days of a new year. In a statement signed by Monsurat Amasa, head, corporate communications, LIRS, the direction is in line with the personal income tax act (PITA) Cap P8 2011 (as) amended). “In accordance with provisions of the Personal Income Tax Act (PITA) Cap P8 2011 (as) amended), the Lagos State Internal Revenue Service (LIRS) is notifying all individual taxpayers, including self-employed persons and employees under the PAYE Scheme to file their Annual Tax Returns on or before 31st March, 2022,” the statement reads. “The obligation to file annual tax returns is stipulated in Section 41 of the Personal Income Tax Act (PITA). This provision makes it mandatory for all taxable person(s) to file a return of aggregate income from all sources for the preceding year with the State tax authority in which they are deemed resident within 90 days from the commencement of every new year of assessment.” Also, Ayodele Subair, LIRS executive chairman, said the filing can only be done on the e-Tax portal of the agency, adding that it is easier and more helpful to use. He added that to avoid payment of penalties as well as other statutory sanctions, tax officers are also assigned to help if there be any difficulty. “Filing of tax returns in Lagos State can only be done on the LIRS e-Tax portal through the following link: https://etax.lirs.net,” Subair said. It is therefore mandatory for all taxable persons in the State to register on the e-Tax portal. The e-Tax portal is built purposely for the convenience of taxpayers. It is easy, convenient and safe.” “As part of the agency’s quest to ease compliance obligations for taxpayers, tax officers have been designated at various tax stations to assist individuals to carry out online registration and filing of tax returns on the e-Tax portal.” Taxpayers are encouraged to visit our website: www.lirs.gov.ng or follow us on our various social media platforms: @lirsgovng, email: etaxinfo@lirs.net or call the LIRS customer care hotline: 0700 CALL LIRS (0700-2255 5477).