Aisha Buhari, the first lady, has urged the national assembly to review its decision on the gender bills that were recently rejected by the lawmakers. The lawmakers had, on Tuesday, voted against bills seeking to amend the constitution to provide more opportunities for women in political parties and governance. The development has sparked criticism against the national assembly, with women groups and other stakeholders calling on the lawmakers to re-present the bills for consideration. In a statement issued on Thursday, Aisha thanked stakeholders for their contributions and asked the lawmakers to look into the bills as part of efforts to address gender discrimination. “The recent decision by the National Assembly to ignore the long-standing clamour for Affirmative Action for Nigerian women was contrary to the very high expectations of forward-looking Nigerian men and women,” the statement reads. “The anger of Nigerians in the circumstance is therefore understandable, more so that not a single concession was made to women, contrary to the global practice of give-and-take for which people’s parliaments are noted for. “Notwithstanding this temporary setback, however, I, on behalf of the wife of the Vice President, HE Mrs. Dolapo Osinbajo, join the multitude of Nigerian men and women to thank relevant UN agencies, local and international Non-governmental organisations, faith-based groups, and all other stakeholders and individuals for their charitable support for fair representation by women in legislative houses, public governance, and management of political parties. “I am of the opinion that our esteemed National Assembly can still review its decision and pray that our compatriots will deeply reflect on this political, but emotive matter. “I call on both the Senate and the House of Representatives as Husbands, Fathers, Brothers and Grandfathers to revise and reconsider reversing their conclusions so that no group, especially mothers, wives, daughters, and partners who women are, would suffer discrimination, or be denied of opportunities to contribute to the process of nation-building.” TheCable had earlier reported how 229 civil society organisations (CSOs) faulted the national assembly over the rejection of the bills.