Abeh Signature Ltd, a property development firm, has asked Mele Kyari, group managing director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) Limited, to prevail on Asabe Waziri, an NNPC official, to vacate two flats valued at N260 million in Abuja. In a letter dated March 4 and addressed to Kyari, the company alleged that Waziri had breached all the agreements on the property. The company also accused Waziri of engaging in “assault, criminal intimidation and public nuisance”. Abeh Signature said it approached a court and secured an order directing Waziri to vacate the property — but she allegedly refused to comply. “Our services have been interrupted and undermined by MS ASABE WAZIRI one of your staff who pretended to be a businesswoman but was later discovered to be a staff of your corporation,” the letter, written by Victor Giwa, the company’s lawyer, reads. “The said Asabe Waziri intended to purchase one unit of a two-bedroom flat in our apartment, which was valued at N130 million but later resolved to purchase two units at N260 million. “But shortly after she was given possession of her units, Ms Asabe began to exhibit characters that are unbecoming of a public servant.” Abeh Signature described Waziri’s payment mode for the purchase of the two flats as “questionable”. The company claimed that the NNPC official made several huge payments in US dollars in cash to its management team, which is against section 15 of the money laundering (Prohibition) Act. “Secondly, Asabe Waziri has singularly and deliberately breached all known covenants and rules regulating conducts of residents in the premises,” the letter adds. “Severally, Asabe Waziri has physically assaulted our staff and officers in the premises even when she was in the wrong. “For instance, she assaulted our lawyer, one Sam Ayebe, tearing his clothes and dragging him on his shirts. Pictoral evidence is attached for your perusal. “Ms Asabe has physically assaulted the men manning the gate and one Aloysius, our supervisor in the apartment among others. “One of the most bizarre is the fact that after we obtained a court order for her to vacate the premises, Ms Asabe instead of complying with the order, resulted to the use of police and other security personnel to intimidate the management. “Ms Asabe’s conduct in the premises is far from decent and the most obnoxious. She has physically assaulted all persons in the premises, claiming to be one of the most powerful person in NNPC. She said she has money to fight anybody in the system.” According to the letter, a federal high court in Abuja had in a suit marked FCT/HC/BW/CV/2435/2021 directed Waziri to vacate the property while Abeh Signature should refund the money paid by Waziri. “In the court’s verdict on February 17, 2022, on the matter, Othman Musa, the judge who delivered the ruling, said, “That having regards to sections 1, 14, 15 of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act and other relevant laws, the various payment made via cash and sundry bank transfers made by the defendant (Asabe Waziri), is illegal and contrary” to the aforementioned provisions of the money laundering laws,” it added. “That the claimant (Abeh Signature) was right in terminating the contract it had with the defendant for the purchase of the two flats at Abeh Court and offering refund of the money paid so far being void due to the contravention of Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act. “That in view of the termination of the contract for the purchase of the two flats at Abeh Court by the claimant, the defendant can no longer claim or exercise ownership at Abeh Court to the claimant over the said two flats. “Consequently, this court orders the claimant to immediately refund the entire monies paid by the defendant (including the legal and agency fees) and further orders the defendant to immediately hand over possession of the two flats, being flats 3C and 3B at Abeh Court to the claimant. “Parties are to bear their respective cost.” Abeh Signature said Waziri had paid N140 million so far for the purchase of the two flats. But due to the irreconcilable differences between the parties and coupled with the court order, the company said it refunded the N140 million to Waziri with an additional N10 million, totalling a N150 million refund.