Boss Mustapha, secretary to the government of the federation (SGF), has launched the Hydroelectric Power Producing Areas Development Commission (HYPPADEC) youth transformation programme in Minna, Niger. Speaking on Thursday, Mustapha said the youths hold the key to a prosperous future for Nigeria. The SGF, who was represented at the event by Sunday Dare, the minister of youth and sports development, emphasised that the President Muhammadu Buhari administration is youth-friendly as it aimed at empowering the young people through programmes in all ministries departments and agencies. He also said that about 5,000 youths will benefit from the transformation programme which will be held twice this year. “Aside hydro-electric power production, the mandate of HYPPADEC includes development of hydro-electric producing areas and managing environmental menace peculiar to it while training into enterprise concept is now the template for youth empowerment,” he said. “About 5,000 youth will be part of this transformation programme which will be held twice this year within a period of three to six months during which they will receive training in vocational/technical, domestic and
agricultural enterprise programmes. “For vocational and technical programmes, there will be training in computer appreciation, computer hardware maintenance and repairs, electric installations and maintenance, software engineering, web designing and development, aluminium fabrication, tiling, solar installation and inverter manufacturing, among others. “Domestic programmes will have trainings in hairdressing, barbing, catering and other culinary services, event management, tailoring, fashion designing and knitting. In agricultural enterprise, there will be training in fish and poultry farming.” Mustapha enjoined the trainees to apply themselves to the opportunity to become self-sustaining and ultimately becoming employers of labour with a view to contributing to the socio-economic development of the country.