Childcare service providers hardly earn the respect they deserve in this part of the world — but Amara Agbim is changing that narrative. As the founder of The Nanny Academy which was established in 2011, Agbim is carving a niche in childcare services in Nigeria. Agbim, who describes herself as “an immigrant to Lagos by marriage,” said the idea was birthed because she did not have the required support system when she was pregnant. “I got married after NYSC and I came to Lagos. However, my parents weren’t in Lagos so, at that time, I didn’t have them around me as a support system,” she said. “After I got pregnant, I didn’t want having babies to stop my dreams. But being pregnant brought about panic, as I wanted my child to have the best of care. I was told to get somebody to help but I’ve seen people use underage children as maids and I’ve never liked it. These were some of the happenings around me. “Then I hired a professional nanny and paid her salary. She did a very good job. However, from my interactions with her, I realised she was reluctant to tell people that she worked as a nanny and this worried me and also helped me to start thinking of that as a problem. “Also, my friends were having babies and started asking me for referrals. And I knew I had to do something.” On the gap the academy aims to fill, Agbim said the goal is to make the job of a nanny something to be proud of.  “The gap is to make it a dignified means of livelihood that people can take up with pride, be paid decent wages, and have their rights protected,” she said. “To support the family is a vital job. We want to change the current narrative and raise the awareness of protecting the dignity of people who work in childcare and domestic spaces. “Since it is a partnership for the benefit of the children, parents should also be involved even when they have a nanny. It helps to create a balance.” As the world celebrates women in the month of March, Agbim provides inspiration for women on rewriting the narrative and breaking the bias associated with childcare in Nigeria. She also offers a reference for women on pursuing their dreams and making a positive change in the world.