Joseph Kabungo, a medical doctor from Zambia, has died in Abuja after the Nigeria/Ghana 2022 FIFA World Cup play-off. Kabungo was the Confederation of African Football (CAF) doping control officer for the Super Eagles and Black Stars game at the MKO Abiola stadium on Tuesday. He died after violence erupted at the end of the match in Abuja. A witness told TheCable that he lost consciousness after he was beaten and stepped upon as fans tried to get out of the stadium in the stampede. “When the fans rushed onto the pitch of play and started destroying things and beating people up, we had to rush into the tunnel to save ourselves,” the witness told TheCable. “Dr Kabungo was beaten and stepped upon by the crowd and was unconscious. “An ambulance had to be called so as to rush him to the hospital after they tried to resuscitate him without success. “We never knew that he would not make it. Until we were told he died.” Matimba Nkonje, a Zambia journalist with SuperSport, also confirmed the death of Kabungo on his Twitter handle. AFCON 2012 Chipolopolo winning squad Team Doctor, Dr. Joseph Kabungo died  last night in Nigeria after the Nigeria vs Ghana World Cup qualifier where he was the CAF doping Officer  following some fracas that ensued after the match where fans ran riot.Doc go well. MYSRIEP pic.twitter.com/83xwYgir6B — Matimba Nkonje (@Ama1010Zambia) March 30, 2022  Collins Atta Poku, a Ghanaian journalist, tweeted that he witnessed the incident. “They beat him, he fell and they throded on him. He lost consciousness was rushed to an ambulance closer to the Ghana dressing for CPR. The entire Ghanaian contingent watched on as resuscitation attempts were made with oxygen mask. He was taken to hospital later and now this. Sad,” he tweeted. They beat him, he fell and they throded on him. He lost consciousness was rushed to an ambulance closer to the Ghana dressing for CPR. The entire Ghanaian contingent watched on as resuscitation attempts were made with oxygen mask. He was taken to hospital later and now this. Sad. https://t.co/nV2UfQ7U9D — Collins Atta Poku (@PapaPoku) March 30, 2022  The Augustine Eguavoen-tutored side could only get a 1-1 draw in front of the home crowd at the end of 90 minutes of play. Ghana qualified for the showpiece in Qatar on the away goal rule.