The Nigerian-British Chamber of Commerce (NBCC) will hold its maiden conference and exhibition fair aimed at unlocking opportunities in trade, investment and healthcare sectors. Akin Osuntoki, NBCC’s vice-president and chairman, trade and investment committee, disclosed this during a press conference on Monday in Lagos. The two-day trade conference with the theme “Fast Tracking Productivity — Leveraging Technology” will hold between March 22 and March 23, 2022, at the Eko Hotel and Suites, Lagos. Osuntoki said the event would bring together business leaders, investors, policymakers and other key stakeholders in the trade and investment ecosystem. He said participants would garner knowledge about the theme while affording businesses the support and avenue needed to network, make connections, do deals, and realise their potential. He added the NBCC had toed the path of advocacy, trade facilitation, networking and training, particularly to promote trade and investment between Nigeria and Britain. “Coming out of the pandemic, we learnt that technology has helped significantly to move work and business online, and it appears to remain so, even after the pandemic,” he said. “It is important that we discuss it and look to know how technology can leverage productivity both in the business space, healthcare and other sectors of the Nigerian economy. “There is the need for public and private sector to join hands to continue to build what we were forced to build during the COVID-19 era, so that we can have a robust and better healthcare system in Nigeria, going forward. “Already, about 70 businesses under our various sectoral groups have confirmed attendance and reflecting on the capacity of our members, we are looking at great volumes of deals and great returns geometrically from the conference. “The conference will cover tech, MSMEs, energy and learning, education and training sector as well as the creative industry.” Osuntoki listed speakers include Olukayode Pitan, managing director, Bank of Industry (BoI) and Lamin Manjang, managing director, Standard Chartered Bank, Nigeria. Others, he said, were Leonard Stanley Ekeh, chairman, Zinox Group and Adesola Adeduntan, managing director, First Bank of Nigeria Limited. Bayo Rotimi, chair, communication committee of the conference, said the chamber would also host Godwin Obaseki, governor of Edo state, on business and investment opportunities in the state. He said the event “Meet Edo Governor” will take place on Thursday, March 17, at the NBCC office, where Obaseki will share his administration’s strategic plans to investors and key stakeholders.