Lai Mohammed, minister of information, says the current increase in the prices of food items and diesel is not only experienced in Nigeria. He said this on Monday at a media briefing in Abuja. The minister’s comment comes hours after Muhamad Abubakar, Sultan of Sokoto, asked the federal government to take urgent measures to address the food price hike experienced in the country. There have also been concerns across the country over the hike in the price of diesel, which has reportedly led to the shutdown of businesses. Speaking on the development on Monday, Mohammed said the price increase is a global trend, adding that the federal government is taking steps to address the situation. “The last issue I want to address is the figures being bandied around by the folks on the other side and a section of the press, comparing the prices of some foodstuffs, petrol, diesel, etc., pre-2015 and now,” he said. “This misuse of statistics is clear mischief. Those who bandy around these figures without putting them in context are being clever by half. Let’s take the price of foodstuffs and petrol. Google the price of foodstuffs in other countries, especially the UK and the US, and you will discover a steep rise. Ditto for the price of gas or petrol. “What we are saying is that this increase is a global trend, and it’s not limited to any country. Therefore, presenting it as a Nigerian problem is mischievous, disingenuous and a clear act of misinformation. “Let me add that the crippling fuel shortage experienced across the country in recent times has started easing, as the measures put in place by the government begin to work.” He added that the present administration is committed to addressing the country’s challenges, just as he challenged the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to show Nigerians what the opposition party achieved in the 16 years they were in power. “We have consistently showcased the massive achievements of this administration in all sectors, even as we admit the challenges we face and work hard to ameliorate things. But against the resort to lies and misinformation by the opposition, it is absolutely necessary for us to dispel their misrepresentation of facts and put things in perspective, which is what we have done today,” he said. “We are not under any illusion that they will stop their misrepresentation. No, because in their desperation to return to complete their demolition work on Nigeria, these folks will stop at nothing to paint us bad. But the good news is that Nigerians remain traumatised by their 16-year misrule, and will not return to ‘Egypt’ by allowing the ‘demolition gang’ back to office. “In the meantime, let them present their 16-year stewardship in all the areas we have listed above and let Nigerians judge!”