There was no away win on matchday 19 in the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) as Rivers United whitewashed Akwa United 4-1 in Port Harcourt. TheCable takes a look at how the 20 NPFL teams fared across various stadiums. Rivers United 4- 1 Akwa Chijioke Akuneto’s hattrick and Ishaq Rafiu’s goal ensured that Akwa left Port Harcourt empty-handed as Rivers United maintained their first spot on the NPFL log. Wikki Tourists 0-0 Enyimba FC It was a goalless affair between Wikki Tourists and Enyimba in Bauchi. Shooting Stars 1-0 Nasarawa United Uko Aniete’s goal in the 13th minute was enough to ensure that Shooting Stars got all three points at stake against Nasarawa United at the Lekan Salami Stadium, Adamasingba, Ibadan. Remo Stars 3-0 Kwara United Goals from Andy Okpe, Tolulope Ojo and Seun Ogunribide helped Remo Stars win all maximum points at stake against Kwara United in Ikenne, Ogun state. Kano Pillars 3-1 Gombe United Ifeanyi Eze scored twice and Rabiu Ali netted once to secure three points for Kano Pillars. Yusuf Abdulazeez, however, scored a consolation goal for the visitors. Heartland 0-0 MFM Heartland and MFM shared the spoils at the Dan Anyiam Stadium, Owerri. Abia Warriors 2-2 Katsina Utd Abia Warriors’ wings were clipped on their home ground as they came from behind twice — courtesy of Valentine Odoh and Godwin Obaje — to force Katsina United to a 2-2 draw after Salisu Mustapha and Adebayo Waheed had scored for the visitors. Rangers 5-3 Lobi Stars Ossy Martins scored a brace against his former club, Kenechukwu Agu also scored two while Chidiebere Nwobodo completed the scoring for Rangers. Raphael Ayagwa, Joshua Akhabue and Douglas Achiv were on the scoresheet for Lobi Stars. Dakkada 2-1 Niger Tornadoes Dakkada handed Tornadoes their tenth loss of the season as the game ended 2-1 in favour of the Uyo-based side at the Godswill Akpabio Stadium. Plateau United 2-0 Sunshine Stars Plateau United continued their flawless home record with a 2-0 win over visiting Sunshine Stars. They remain unbeaten in 11 games and occupy the second spot on the NPFL table.