Some traditional rulers in Enugu have endorsed Ike Ekweremadu, a former deputy senate president, for the state’s governorship in 2023. The traditional rulers gave their “blessings” to Ekweremadu when they paid him a visit in the state on Sunday. Speaking on behalf of the delegation, Harford Agana, traditional ruler of Amandim-Olo, said the senator representing Enugu west has attracted projects to the state. “You attracted roads across the three senatorial districts,” Agana said while presenting him the ‘ofo’, the Igbo symbol of authority, truth, and justice. “You have done water projects across senatorial districts and your scholarships cut across senatorial districts. So, we are here to show solidarity and offer our royal blessings and prayers to you and your family.” On his part, Ekweremadu said if elected governor, he would oversee the construction of at least two industries in each of the 17 LGAs of the state. “At this point, therefore, I believe it is time to focus on Enugu state and Enugu people without whom I would not be who and what I am today,” the lawmaker said. “We want to industrialise Enugu state by building at least two industries in each of the 17 local governments in four years and through what we call ‘one local government, one product’, according to comparative advantages. “We want to develop our road infrastructure by building well-lit super highways from Enugu city to our borders with Ebonyi, Anambra, Benue, and Abia and also construct a ringroad to connect all local government areas in the state. We already have people in the United Kingdom people ready to assist us if elected. “We want to deploy technology and employment to fight insecurity by providing a digital security network, by setting up an efficient state-funded security outfit that can respond to an emergency in 10 minutes, by creating an Enugu state identity database, and setting up a security and public safety coordination centre. “We have developed short, medium, and long term workable plans to ensure that water scarcity becomes a thing of the past in Enugu. “We want to build dams and rehabilitate existing water sources and pipelines. There are both local and international contacts who have committed to helping us in regard.”