The ministry of interior affairs says Shell Plc and ExxonMobil are not leaving the country anytime soon. Last month, Seplat Energy Plc said it would acquire the entire share capital of Mobil Producing Nigeria Unlimited (MPNU) from Exxon Mobil Corporation. Blessing Lere-Adams, director of press and public relations, ministry of interior, in a statement on Thursday, quoted Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) as saying this during a courtesy call at the ministry in Abuja. According to the statement, Olukayode Ogunleye, vice president, human resources, Shell, gave this guarantee. Ogunleye said although most of their oil wells had halted operations due to insecurity in the Niger-Delta region, the companies would remain in the country. “The Vice President Human Resource, Shell Petroleum Development Company confirmed that Shell, ExxonMobil are not leaving Nigeria,” the statement reads. “The Federal Government has a large share in it, despite the very tough and trying environment around the Niger-Delta region where most of the oil wells are shut down due to insecurity of lives and opportunities, they are still forging ahead to ensure equity diversification of their business to build a smaller emerging business to assist in growing the Nigerian economy from both the deepwater business to the new Nigerian Natural Liquefied Gas. “This will enhance the transfer of gas and power to Aba, Ota and Agbara; – all these he said are huge businesses in which the Federal Government of Nigeria owns large shares.” Shuaib Belgore, permanent secretary, ministry of interior, said the federal government is committed to the ease of doing business with stakeholders to ensure the smooth influx of foreign investors and investment into Nigeria. Belgore said the mandate of the ministry includes the formulation and implementation of policies and programmes of the government that enhances internal security, public safety, an enabling business environment for domestic and foreign investors and the maintenance of citizenship integrity, among others.