In what may have started as an uneventful day for the hundreds of passengers who boarded a train in Abuja on the evening of March 28, things took a different turn after 8pm when gunmen attacked the train in Kateri-Rijana area of Kaduna. TheCable had reported that the train was not far from its destination in Kaduna when the gunmen blew up the rail track and started shooting at passengers. Several people were killed and scores sustained gunshot injuries. Some family members of passengers aboard the train are yet to know the fate of their relatives. However, some victims have now been identified. CHINELO NWANDO MEGAFU Chinelo was a dental surgeon. Shortly before she died, she had tweeted about getting shot on the train. MUSA-LAWAL OZIGI Ozigi was the secretary-general of the Trade Union Congress (TUC). He died from injuries sustained in the attack. AKIN AKINSOLA Akinsola, Kwara state chairman of the TUC, was killed during the incident. ALWAL HASSAN Hassan is the acting managing director/chief executive officer of the Bank of Agriculture (BOA). He is reportedly missing. MUHAMMAD AMIN MAHMOOD Mahmood contested for the north-west youth leadership position of the All Progressives Congress (APC). He was shot but survived. ISA KOFAR MATA Kofar Mata was one of the directors of the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE). He died in the attack. NUHU DANJA Danja, Katsina commissioner for health, sustained injury but survived. MAIMUNA IBRAHIM Maimuna, a resident of Kaduna, was shot in the thigh. She survived the attack. FATIMA SHUAIBU AND ZAINAB AWAL Speaking to TheCable on Tuesday, Fatima said she and her sister, Zainab Awal, both sustained injuries. However, Zainab, who was shot in the stomach, died. MOHAMMED ISA Isa, a resident of Kaduna, was shot in his right arm. He is currently receiving medical treatment. Meanwhile, Mohammed Barau, a resident of Ungwan Rimi area of Kaduna, told NAN that his family has not established contact with his younger brother who was a passenger on the train. Lami Gombo, a resident of Kudenden in Kaduna, also said she is yet to hear from her brother who was on the train. TWITTER ANNOUNCEMENTS The train incident last night is perhaps one of the most tragic security nightmares in recent times.The most disturbing certainly.  I also lost my darling friend fareedah  muhammad yesterday night. she was an angel. always stood by me through thick and thin.الهم يرحمك ويغفرلك pic.twitter.com/np8h1V22Am — miss-may.ayush (@ashosha1arabiye) March 29, 2022  pic.twitter.com/dVtzBfPnLC — Senator Shehu Sani (@ShehuSani) March 29, 2022  