Enough is Enough (EiE) Nigeria, a civil society organisation, has announced that it will host a symposium in commemoration of its 12th anniversary. The symposium is billed to hold on April 5 by 10am at the Yar’Adua Centre in Abuja. ‘On Debates and Democracy’ is the theme for the event. The organisation, in a statement on Wednesday, spoke on how an email that led to a protest began its journey on encouraging active citizenship in Nigeria. “A loose network of young Nigerians would say ‘Enough is Enough’ and walk the talk by protesting at both the National Assembly and to then-Governor Babatunde Fashola’s office in Lagos, asking if President Yar’adua was dead or alive in Saudi Arabia, demanding that fuel queues and the killings in Jos be stopped,” the statement reads. “12 years later, while Nigeria still battles with similar issues, EiE Nigeria has gone on to pioneer several campaigns including R|S|V|P, Nigeria’s longest-running get-out-the-vote campaign, which was adapted from the popular ‘Rice and Stew Very Plenty’ to Register|Select|Vote not Fight|Protect.” The symposium will feature a keynote address by Janet Brown, executive director of the commission on presidential debates (CPD); and a media panel with four debate moderators — Maupe Ogun-Yusuf, Ngozi Alaegbu, Reuben Abati, and Seun Okinbaloye — in conversation with Segun Adeniyi, chairman of THISDAY editorial board. It will also feature a debate panel with Abdulfatai Buhari, senator from Oyo north; Babatunde Fashola, minister of works and housing; Mahmood Yakubu, chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC); Mercy Ayodele, former Osun governorship candidate, and ‘Yemi Adamolekun, executive director, EiE Nigeria. According to the statement, Adamolekun said debates are an integral part of a democratic system, either as part of a political campaign or engagements between citizens who have different opinions. “In the political context, debates provide a platform where citizens can listen to the candidates, ask questions, and make informed choices on who they will elect to govern them,” Adamolekun said. “It shapes campaigns and prepares serious candidates for governance. EiE believes in the intrinsic value of debates as a mechanism to deepen democratic ideas and we are committed to hosting/co-hosting as many as we can to further that objective.” To attend the symposium in person or online, register here.