Ese Owie, a former executive chairman of Edo State Internal Revenue Service (EIRS), says he is the most competent among aspirants vying to represent Edo South in the senate. Ese, on Saturday, declared his intention to seek the ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to contest the 2023 senatorial election. The former aide of Adams Oshiomhole, ex-governor of Edo, said he is the “most prepared” of all the aspirants seeking to clinch the senatorial ticket of the party. “I am an accomplished Practitioner in International Trade Law, Trade Policy, and Trade Economics. In the course of my sterling multi-jurisdictional career spanning over two decades, I have garnered extensive experience in advising National Governments, Multilateral Agencies and Private Organizations on International Trade Law and International Economic Law & Policy with a special focus on Sustainable Trade and Regional Economic Integration, amongst others,” he said in a statement. “Between 2009 and 2011, I served as Special Adviser (Cabinet Rank) to the Executive Governor of Edo State on Policy and Strategic Planning and helped to shape the Administration’s strategic policy direction. I subsequently had the privilege of serving as Executive Chairman of Edo State Board of Internal Revenue and a Member of the State Executive Council, where I functioned as the Administrative Head of the State’s Internal Revenue Service.” “At the Board of Internal Revenue, I led a transformation of the State’s Internally Generated Revenue institutional framework and grew the monthly revenue from approximately 250 million Naira per month to over 1.8 Billion Naira monthly within one year – a feat that has remained unsurpassed in any National or Sub-National Taxation or Revenue Generation Agency in Africa, South of the Sahara.” Ese said his representation of the district will focus on five thematic pillars; education, infrastructure, agriculture and wealth creation. “Within the context of a prosperous Edo South, and a sustainable future for Edo State, our Legislative Agenda shall focus on 5 Thematic Pillars that would positively and fundamentally alter the developmental landscape of the Senatorial District,” he said. “The thematic pillars are Education, Healthcare, Infrastructure, Agriculture and Wealth Creation.”