The Imo police command says it killed four gunmen suspected to be members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) during a fresh attack at the Omuma divisional police headquarters in the Oru east LGA. The gunmen reportedly attacked the police station in the early hours of Sunday. The attack comes 24 hours after gunmen razed the Umuguma divisional police headquarters in Owerri West LGA of the state, killing one person and burning vehicles in the vicinity. TheCable had also reported how the house of George Obiozor, president-general of Ohanaeze Ndigbo worldwide, was set ablaze on the same day by yet to be identified gunmen. Mike Abbatam, police spokesperson in Imo, confirmed the latest attack. Abbatam said the gunmen were repelled by the security operatives who engaged them in a gun duel, killing the four suspects while the others escaped with gunshot wounds. He said five undetonated improvised explosive devices were recovered and removed. “On March 20, 2022, at about 0300 hours, Hoodlums suspected to be members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra/Eastern Security Network terrorist group came in large numbers with various calibres of Improvised Explosive Devices to Omuma police station shooting sporadically, but were swiftly repelled by the ever gallant and combat-ready Imo Police Command’s tactical teams and operatives of the DSS who responded immediately, positioning themselves professionally and strategically,” he said. “The Police operatives engaged the hoodlums in a fierce gun duel and in the process four of the bandits were neutralised on the spot, while others scampered into the bush having suffered a huge defeat, with a number of them sustaining various degrees of bullet wounds. There was no casualty on the side of the joint security operatives. “On the spot, five undetonated different capacities of Improvised Explosives Devices were recovered from the neutralised bandits, and charms. The Police Bomb Unit has taken custody of the bombs for detonation.” The police spokesperson added that the command’s tactical teams are already on the trail of the fleeing suspects. “Meanwhile, the command’s tactical teams are conducting a vigorous and aggressive combing of the bush to arrest the fleeing hoodlums and to recover their arms/ammunition since they cannot go far because of the huge damage done to them,” he said. “The Commissioner of Police, CP Rabiu Hussaini psc, while commending the officers and men for their gallantry, urged them not to relent in their efforts until all criminal elements and their partners are apprehended and made to face the full wrath of the law. “He then appealed to Imolites for the continuous support and collaboration by giving security agencies, especially the Police, credible and timely information and to report any person seen treating bullet wounds or hiding within the community to the nearest police station for prompt action.”