Mai Mala Buni, governor of Yobe and chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) caretaker committee, has returned to Nigeria following a medical trip abroad. Buni returned to the country on Thursday and took control of the party. The governor’s return was announced by Mamman Mohammed, his director general of press and media relations. According to the statement, the Yobe governor asked APC members to support the party ahead of its March 26 national convention, while urging them to shun issues capable of hindering the party from success. “Put the recent events in the party behind you and work towards a successful convention,” Buni was quoted as saying. “The success of the party remains paramount and needs the support of every member. “As we head towards the national convention, the party needs the support of every stakeholder and member to succeed. “As democrats and committed party members, we should avoid issues that are capable of diverting our attention from the path of success.” KEY EVENTS IN BUNI’S ABSENCE On March 7, Abubakar Sani Bello, governor of Niger, took over as the acting chairman of the APC. Subsequently, reports emanated that the Buni-led caretaker committee was working to scuttle the APC national convention. Days later, Bello reorganised the sub-committees for the convention set up by Buni and reduced the number to 107, saying they were too many. On March 10, the Niger governor announced that an emergency meeting of the party’s national executive council will be held on March 17. Meanwhile, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) rejected  the notice of the NEC meeting, saying it was not signed by Buni and John Akpanudoedehe, the national secretary. On Wednesday, President Muhammadu Buhari asked APC governors to allow Buni to plan the national convention. Earlier on Thursday, Akpanudoedehe released names of the sub-committee members for the convention, adding that it “supersedes any other list in circulation”. However, Buni, in a subsequent letter, disowned Akpanudoedehe’s announcement, saying all decisions taken by Bello are valid.