Access Holdings Plc has announced the changes and appointments to the board of its banking subsidiary, Access Bank Plc. The company disclosed this in a statement signed by Sunday Ekwochi, the group company secretary, on Monday in Lagos. The statement said the announcement followed the completion of the scheme of arrangement between Access Bank Plc and its shareholders. It said the board appointed Roosevelt Ogbonna as the managing director/chief executive officer of the Access Bank, Victor Etuokwu, deputy managing director, Retail North and Chizoma Okoli, deputy managing director, Retail South. It added that the three appointments had been approved by the Central Bank of Nigeria, effective May 2, 2022. “Ogbonna has been the bank’s Deputy Managing Director since 2017. Prior to 2017, he was appointed Executive Director, Commercial Banking Division, in October 2013,” the statement reads. “He is a through-bred and consummate professional with over two decades of banking experience, having joined Access Bank in 2002 from Guaranty Trust Bank. “He has a robust corporate board experience and currently serves as a Non-Executive Director of the bank’s subsidiaries in the United Kingdom and South Africa. “He also represents the bank on the boards of its investee companies — African Finance Corporation and CSCS Plc.” The statement noted that Etuokwu was appointed an executive director of the bank in 2012 and his appointment was renewed in 2022 following the expiration of his second term. Etuokwu holds a Bachelor’s of Science degree and a Master’s in Business Administration from the University of Ibadan and the University of Benin respectively. He attended several executive education programmes in prestigious institutions, including Oxford Business School. Okoli, according to the statement, is a seasoned professional with three decades of banking experience. She commenced her professional career in 1992 as an Executive Trainee in the defunct Diamond Bank Plc, where she distinguished herself and rapidly rose through the ranks to become an Executive Director in 2016. She obtained a Bachelor’s of Law degree from the University of Benin and a Master’s in Business Administration from Warwick Business School, United Kingdom. She is an honorary senior member of the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria and a member of the Institute of Credit Administration of Nigeria. The statement also announced the resignation of Adeolu Bajomo as executive director, Information Technology and Operations, with effect from September 30, 2022, following his decision to pursue other personal interests. It also announced the appointment of Herbert Wigwe as the group managing director/ chief executive officer, Access Holdings Plc.