The Nigerian Postal Services (NIPOST) says it has moved away from analogue operations and embraced technological solutions. Ismail Adewusi, postmaster general of the federation, said this on Tuesday in Lagos while unveiling POSTAGY, a new logistics application. He said the corporation has advanced with the global trend in businesses, and it is introducing innovative ideas and solutions that would simplify transactions for its customers. Represented by Victor Udughele, NIPOST’s director of operations, Adewusi said the innovation also came with another strategic partnership with Hamabreeze Limited pioneer motorbikes already enrolled on the POSTAGY CAPTAIN app and waiting to deliver orders. “The well-crafted technology will, over time, be operational throughout the federation. From today, operations begin in Lagos state and will further be extended to the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, and then to other states of the federation,” Adewusi said. “With these bikes, we have our attention to the delivery of small packets, and these beautiful new babies will do the magic! “We are also deeply concerned about cumbersome items and their deliveries. I wish to let you know that there are vehicles in that category that can move these items too. So no existing or potential customers should have any doubt about our capacities. “I am using this medium to encourage vehicle owners in various categories to sign up on the app and earn that extra income after rendering service.” Adewusi applauded Isa Ali Pantami, minister of communications and digital economy, who has been driving the change mantra through the application of the latest technology. On his part, Oladapo Adekunle, general manager, e-Commerce of NIPOST, said the new mobile application was developed by the agency’s partner — e-Gate Egypt. “This is a very significant moment for us at the e-commerce & logistics commercial business unit. Today’s event marks the rejigging of our purpose to reposition as the leader in the e-Commerce & Logistics sector in Nigeria,” Adekunle said. “e-Commerce giants in the advanced world have been successful because of how they have leveraged on technology to improve the postal service systems. We are set to operate efficiently and effectively — the soon-to-be-unveiled Product – Postagy in line with global best practices.” He said since the establishment of the e-commerce & logistics commercial business unit in the year 2017, the business unit has continually embraced innovations and sought ways to do business better and faster. “I am delighted that the Postmaster-General will be unveiling the long-awaited mobile solution alongside brand new motorbikes, which will further increase our fleet management solution’s effectiveness and efficiency,” he added.