Some angry fans of the Super Eagles of Nigeria invaded the newly refurbished Moshood Abiola Stadium in Abuja and vandalised facilities in protest of the team’s failure to qualify for the Qatar 2022 World Cup. The Black Stars of Ghana ended Nigeria’s dream of becoming the first African country to qualify for four consecutive World Cups. The Ghanaians secured a 1-1 draw in Abuja on Tuesday to progress to the World Cup based on the away goals rule — after holding Nigeria to a goalless draw in Kumasi last Friday. Thomas Partey’s opener in the 11th minute proved costly for the Eagles whose equalizer through William Troost-Ekong in the 22nd minute was not enough to salvage the tie. However, following the final whistle, a crowd of irate fans stormed the pitch and damaged some of the stadium facilities. In a now-viral video, the fans poured into the pitch from all sides, upturning the dugout while smashing its glasses in anger. The vandalising crowd also carried out the act despite attempts by security operatives to stop them with teargas. BREAKING: Super Eagles supporters invade pitch, vandalise stadium facilities : @theyawofosu #NGAGHA pic.twitter.com/dd0WeyCDFk — TheCable (@thecableng) March 29, 2022  TheCable had reported how Aliko Dangote earmarked $1 million for the renovation of some parts of the 60,000 capacity stadium in August 2020. Meanwhile, some Nigerians on Twitter have described the act as a “show of shame” while condemning the vandalisation. “The renovated Abuja National Stadium shouldn’t be vandalized by angry fans. The violence & Destruction mentality by the youths is worrisome,” a Twitter user wrote. “That show of shame at the National Stadium was never about the match outcome. It’s about Nigerians looking for where to vent their anger & frustrations on. The country’s wicked leaders have made everyone a raving lunatic. The coming days won’t be as easy.” See more tweets below: You can be angry and not do stupid things. Vandalism of the National Stadium will never ever be justified. A lot of us are angry and pissed off today but vandalism is not the answer. — Dr. Dípò Awójídé (@OgbeniDipo) March 29, 2022  The guys destroying stuff at the National Stadium Abuja are most likely the same set of hoodlums hired by the State to harass the peaceful EndSars Abuja protesters with weapons… una too dey forget quick for this country. — theonly1acre (@theonly1acre) March 29, 2022  That show of shame at the National Stadium was never about the Match Outcome. It's about Nigerians looking for where to vent their Anger & Frustrations on. The Country's Wicked Leaders  have made everyone a Raving Lunatic. The Coming days won't be as easy… — Kes IZODUWA  (@Kestim_) March 29, 2022  The renovated Abuja National Stadium shouldn’t be vandalized by angry fans. Violence & Destruction mentality by the youths is worrisome. — UNCLE DEJI (@DejiAdesogan) March 29, 2022  There's no justification for whatever that is currently happening at the National stadium at the moment. Nigerians should condemn it entirely. Take your L and go back home. Your team played woefully and lost. — Ridwan Oke (@Ridwanullahii) March 29, 2022 