The national electricity grid suffered a system collapse on Tuesday — the second incident within two days. The grid had collapsed on Monday at 10:40am leading to power outage across the country. In a message to its customers, Ikeja Electric said the grid collapsed at about 5:10pm on Tuesday. “This is to inform you that the outage you are currently experiencing is due to the system collapse on the national grid which occured today at 17:10hrs and this has affected the Transmission Stations within our networks,” the message, which was posted on Twitter, reads. “Kindly bear with us as we await restoration of the grid. We apologise for all inconveniences caused.” Dear Customer, This is to inform you that the outage you are currently experiencing is due to the system collapse on the National grid which occured today at 17:10hrs and this has affected the Transmission Stations within our network…1/2 — Ikeja Electric (@IkejaElectric) March 15, 2022  The Enugu Electricity Distribution Plc (EEDC) also announced the second collapse incident and said its customers in five states will be affected. “The Enugu Electricity Distribution PLC (EEDC) wishes to inform her esteemed customers of another system collapse which occurred at 5.10pm this evening, Tuesday, 15th March, 2022,” Emeka Ezeh, head of corporate communications, said in the statement. “This is coming barely 24 hours after the grid collapse experienced in the early hours of yesterday, Monday, 14th March, 2022. “As a result of this unfortunate development, all our outgoing feeders are out and supply to our customers in Abia, Anambra, Ebonyi, Enugu, and Imo States has been affected. “We are currently on standby, awaiting further directive from the National Control Centre (NCC) for restoration of supply.” The development comes as Nigerians are experiencing epileptic power supply amid a hike in the prices of diesel and petrol. Meanwhile, the grid has experienced disruptions in recent months — it collapsed in February, May, July and August 2021.