The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) says it has suspended implementation of the vehicle identification number (VIN) valuation policy recently introduced on imported vehicles. Hamza Gummi, assistant comptroller general of customs in charge of tariff and trade, disclosed this in a circular on Monday. TheCable had reported how exporters were re-routing cargoes to Port Harcourt and Calabar ports as congestion hampered business activities at the Lagos port. The Ndigbo Amaka Progressive Association and Southeast Lagos and Shippers Association of Lagos (SALS) said that over 12,000 imported vehicles are currently trapped at the ports as a result of the strike action embarked upon by clearing agents over the e-valuation policy. The clearing agents alleged that NCS had used the e-valuation system to hike duties on imported vehicles arbitrarily. Beginning today, Tuesday, March 8, 2022, the NCS approved a one-month window to enable the clearing agents to clear a backlog of vehicles held up in the port as a result of the strike action. “Sequel to the recent Customs, stakeholders town hall meeting held in Lagos on the VIN-Valuation, the comptroller general of Customs (CGC), Col. Hameed Ali (rtd), having listened to public outcry, has graciously approved one month window to enable clearing the backlog of vehicles, held up in the ports as a result of the strike action,” the circular reads. “Meanwhile, you are requested to ensure the uniform application of rebates for all vehicles using the correct values for your assessments. “The VIN-valuation protocol is still in operation as reviews and updates are being captured in our system to reflect these adjustments.” The circular further directed the affected area controllers to monitor the transition period to ensure that manual assessments are in full compliance with extant laws. “Area Controllers are expected to monitor this transition period and ensure manual assessments are in full compliance with extant laws. This grace period is for one month, beginning from Tuesday 8 Mar 22,” the circular adds.