Ashleigh Barty, the three-time Grand Slam champion and current No. 1 women’s tennis player in the world, has announced her retirement. The 25-year-old Australian broke the shocking news in a video shared on her verified Instagram page on Wednesday. The announcement came a few weeks after she became the first home-grown champion of the Australian Open in 44 years. Barty said she was “absolutely spent” and has nothing more to offer the sport. “Today is difficult and filled with emotion for me as I announce my retirement from tennis,” she wrote alongside the video. Barty also reflected on her decision to retire from tennis in a chat with Casey Dellacqua, a former doubles partner and friend. “I’ll be retiring from tennis, and it’s the first time I have actually said that loud. It’s hard to say, but I’m so happy, and I’m so ready. I just know at the moment in my heart, for me as a person, this is right. I’m so grateful this sport has given me,” she said. “It has given me all of my dreams plus more, but I know this is the time for me to step away and chase other dreams and put the record down. “I know how much work it takes to bring the best out of yourself. I’ve said it to my team multiple times, ‘I just don’t have that in me anymore.’ Physically, I have nothing more to give. I’ve given absolutely everything I have to this beautiful sport of tennis, and I’m really happy with that. “For me, that is my success. Thank you to everyone who has supported me along the way. I’ll always be grateful for the lifelong memories we created together. “I know that people may not understand it. I’m OK with that. Because I know that Ash Barty the person has so many dreams she wants to chase after that don’t necessarily involve travelling the world, being away from my family, from my home, which is where I’ve always wanted to be.” Barty has been the world number one for all but four weeks since winning her first Grand Slam at the French Open in 2019. Only Steffi Graf, Serena Williams (both 186 weeks), and Martina Navratilova (156) have recorded longer streaks as world number one in the women’s game. 