A digital media company in South-South Nigeria is hiring to fill the following vacancies: MANAGING EDITOR Responsibilities: The Managing Editor will be primarily responsible for planning and managing all daily operations of the website; approving assignments for writers and editors, and implementing best practices, workflows, tools, and templates to maximise efficiency. Requirements: The ideal candidate should have exceptional ability in copywriting and editing and working knowledge of online platforms like WordPress and Search Engine Optimisation (SEO) concepts. The candidate should possess outstanding communication, presentation, and leadership abilities in planning and coordinating people and operations, and excellent organisational skills. Candidates must be proficient in digital journalism. Education and Experience: Must have at least a first degree from a recognised university, with at least 10 years post-qualification experience and must have worked in a similar role. EDITOR Responsibilities: The Editor will be responsible for producing contents for the website based on the editorial policy and publishing specifications. He or she shall edit, vet and select stories for publication and also generate headline ideas in alignment with the targeted audience’s preferences. Requirements: The ideal candidate should possess previous writing and proofreading experience and proven experience in a related role. He or she should have good eye for detail and exhibit excellent leadership skill. Candidates must be versatile in digital journalism. Education and Experience: The ideal candidate must have a good first degree from a recognised university with at least 8 years post-qualification experience and proven experience as an Editor or a Deputy Online News Editor. DEPUTY EDITOR Responsibilities: The Deputy Editor will be responsible for managing the editorial content, edit articles, fact-check and get involved in decisions regarding layout, design, tone. The Deputy Editor should be able to stand in for the Editor when necessary. Requirements: Proven experience in editing, writing, and proofreading with an excellent portfolio. Familiarity with SEO and social media platforms. The candidate must possess excellent communication skills and be able to prioritise and multitask. Candidates should be proficient in digital journalism. Education and Experience: Must have a first degree from a recognised university, with at least 5 years post qualification experience and proven experience as Deputy Editor. NEWS EDITOR Responsibilities: The News Editor will manage and edit daily news, special news stories, and other news content. He or she will monitor all feeds from the news bureau and other agencies for editing and further publications. The News Editor will design and implement coverage strategies to facilitate wide coverage of all sorts of news; evaluate all news for authenticity and check with sources to ensure the correctness of published articles; prepare reports for current news trend, new readers and sustain existing readers and ensure compliance with media laws and ethical guidelines. Requirements: The candidate must possess excellent ability in writing and editing, hands-on experience with basic Microsoft Office and other publishing tools, and strong proofreading skills. Candidates must be proficient in digital journalism. Education and Experience: Must have a first degree from a recognised university with at least 5 years post qualification experience and proven experience in a similar role. BUSINESS EDITOR Responsibilities: The Business Editor will specialise in planning & coordinating the creation of business-related content for the website; edit and organise content; develop metrics to measure how content is consumed, among others. Requirements: Journalism experience, particularly business journalism with extensive network of sources across the economy and industry beat as well as hands-on-skill in new media, excellent interpersonal and communication skills, and good analytical skills. The ideal candidate must be proficient in digital journalism. Education and Experience: Must have a first degree from a recognised university with at least 3 years post qualification experience and proven experience in a similar role. SOCIETY EDITOR Responsibilities: The Society Editor will specialise in planning & coordinating the creation of society-related content for the website; edit content and work with writers on translating ideas to publishable society stories and also develop story and content ideas according to the publication’s style and editorial policy. Requirements: The society editor must be experienced in editing, commissioning, and writing society, metro and city-life content as well as excellent interpersonal and communication skills. Candidates must be proficient in digital journalism. Education: Must have a first degree from a recognised university, with at least 3 years post-qualification experience and proven experience as a society editor. WEB DEVELOPER Responsibilities: The web developer will build & test aesthetic, function, and user- friendly website, Serves as the primary contact for all aspects of the organisation’s website(s), develops and maintains internet and intranet portals, forms, and structures by the organisation’s needs, encourages and facilitates consistent, creative, and unified web design across the organisation’s web properties, collects and analyses web analytics and similar data; identifies opportunities to improve SEO, time on site, web traffic, and other relevant metrics and maintains current knowledge of best practices and emerging developments in web design, web development, and technology. Requirements: Candidates must possess extensive knowledge of website management, analytics, design, and SEO best practices and standards, working knowledge of or ability to quickly learn web content management systems, applications, and tools used by the organisation, highly proficient with HTML/CSS; working knowledge of XML, SQL, JavaScript, and other programming languages. Education and Experience: Must have at least a first degree from a recognised university or its equivalent. Proven experience as a web developer. HOW TO APPLY: Interested and qualified candidates should send CV to jobtracking@edojobs.org and jobvacancies.digitalmedia@gmail.com using the position as the subject of email. OR Walk into Edo Job Centre at: Edo Innovation Hub, 59 I.C.E Road, Wire Road, Benin City, Edo Production Centre, Magistrate Court Compound, Sapele Rd, Benin City. Deadline for submission of application: All applications must be sent in before March 31, 2022.