The Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC) says Nigeria’s non-oil export products have increased by 56 percent, amounting to $3.45 billion in 2021. The council had announced N50 billion export expansion facility programme (EEFP) as part of the economic sustainability plan last year. Ezra Yakusak, executive director, NEPC, disclosed this on Tuesday at a seminar organised by the council in Owerri, Imo state. Yakusak was represented by Anthony Ajuruchi, NEPC, trade promotion advisor, Imo. He said the 2021 record is nothing compared to the $2.21 billion generated in 2020, adding that the council was able to achieve the feat as a result of the implementation of its current mantra, “Export for Survival”. Yakusak also asked media practitioners to prioritise publicity about the exportation of non-oil products as a means of marketing Nigeria’s indigenous products at the international level and diversifying her economy for survival. He lauded exporters in Imo for manufacturing products worth over $2.3 million from 2016 to 2021 and exporting the same to Poland, US, Dubai, Italy and Australia. “As a stakeholder, NEPC has been working assiduously with other relevant government institutions handling the African Continental Free Trade Area Agreement to ensure seamless implementation and gainful participation,” Yakusak said. “Non-oil exports have become the only means of survival for Nigeria as a nation, hence the need to partner with you journalists in educating the public and taking the activities of the Council to the grassroots.” Ajuruchi further said NEPC Imo had organised workshops to enlighten exporters in the state on seamless procedures for exportation and the Ease of Doing Business policy of the government. He added that the NEPC, through its one-state-one-product initiative, collaborated with state governments to develop products with comparative advantage for export as part of the federal government’s economic recovery and growth plan. He also appreciated Hope Uzodimma, the state governor, for providing the enabling business environment for NEPC’s activities and called for more support from his government. He added that the Federal Government had assisted companies with the necessary certification to penetrate the global market. “Due to the vigorous efforts of the NEPC and indigenous exporters, local products such as palm kernel shells, breadfruit, cashew nuts, bitter kola, melon (egusi), ogbono, vegetables, ogiri (castor oil) uziza, ofor, and crayfish, have gone international,” he added. “In 2021, the federal government, through NEPC, administered grants to small and medium scale enterprises and performing exporters under the Export Expansion Facility Programme, and facilitated the certification of export companies.”