The national leadership of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) has suspended Musiliu Akinsanya, chairman of the Lagos state chapter, over alleged misconduct, insubordination and incitement. The indefinite suspension of Akinsaya, popularly known as MC Oluomo, was contained in a letter signed by Kabiru Yau, general secretary of the national body, and dated March 9, 2022. The Lagos NURTW leader was accused of planning to instigate mayhem in the union branches that fail to obey his instructions. The NURTW national body said MC Oluomo should hand over the leadership of the Lagos chapter to his deputy. “This is to convey to you that in line with Article 42 section 5, subsection I, II, III, IV, V, and VIII of the union’s constitution, you have been placed on indefinite suspension from office as State Chairman of Lagos State Council of National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) with effect from March 9th, 2021,” the statement reads. “Your suspension is the sequel to sustained acts of insubordination and gross misconduct coupled with your clandestine plans to instigate crisis and unleash mayhem on any branch or branches of the union in Lagos state that refuses to obey your order or instructions not to accept directives from the national headquarters of the Union. “Your orchestrated plan to attack branches that may disobey your orders aforesaid will ultimately endanger public peace and order in Lagos state. It is also very likely to threaten and/or affect the lives and property of the peace-loving people of Lagos state, particularly those doing their legitimate businesses within motor parks, hence the urgent need to take drastic actions against him. “It is on record that you were earlier issued with queries on 25th of February 2022 and 3rd of March, 2022 respectively in which you were directed to explain the circumstances surrounding your untoward actions and to also show cause why disciplinary actions should not be taken against you for such acts of insubordination.” ‘LAGOS CHAPTER YET TO RECEIVE SUSPENSION LETTER’ Speaking with TheCable, Smart Olayinka, personal assistant to MC Oluomo, said the Lagos NURTW chapter has not received any letter regarding the suspension of his principal. “As of this morning, we (referring to Lagos chapter) have not yet received a letter regarding that. Maybe the letter is on its way,” Olayinka said. “The council has not yet received a letter. We have called an emergency meeting about that. Maybe, later in the day, the letter will come or someone will bring it. We have not received the letter officially.”