The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) says the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration has failed to deliver on its promise to make life easier for Nigerians. The opposition party said the current petrol scarcity and “widespread uncertainties” show that the country is on auto-pilot. In a statement issued on Thursday, Debo Ologunagba, PDP’s spokesperson, said the scarcity of petrol has resulted in high cost of living. “The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) charges Nigerians to brace up and support one another in the face of abandonment by the All Progressives Congress (APC) administration as all critical indicators show that the APC has abdicated its constitutional duty to guarantee the security and welfare of the people,” the statement reads. “The prevailing chaotic situation in the country with widespread uncertainties, unabating fuel crisis, piercing economic hardship, sectional agitations, heated industrial unrests, infrastructural stagnation, kidnapping, daily bloodletting and escalated insecurity with gangsters now taking over the streets of major cities further confirms that the APC administration is now on autopilot with its central command structure in disarray. “While other world leaders are solving problems in their countries, President Buhari, who promised to fix our refineries, abandoned Nigerians to the excruciating fuel crisis caused by the corruption perpetrated by APC leaders in the helm of affairs in the petroleum sector, which has now crippled economic activities in the country. “Nigerians will recall that after being exposed for importing contaminated fuel with consequential damage to vehicles, machinery and businesses, the APC government had promised to fix the situation. Sadly, several weeks after, the APC Federal Government had failed in its promise as always like in every other aspect of our national life. “With the corruption and abdication of duty by the APC, our nation is now at the mercy of black-market vendors who charge already overburdened Nigerians as high as N500 per litre of fuel; a development that has resulted in a spiral increase in transport fares, costs of food, medicines and other essential commodities. “This is in addition to the collapse of many businesses, massive loss of jobs, hunger and starvation, the sudden death of breadwinners with grave economic pressure on millions of families and attendant social consequences to our country. “By travelling out of the country at the time Nigerians expect him to make himself available and provide leadership to address the agitations by striking university lecturers, President Buhari further exposes APC’s lack of commitment towards the wellbeing and development of Nigerians youths. “Our Party is concerned that the insensitivity and utter disregard of the APC and its government for the feelings of the people have heightened tension in the country and if not checked could result in widespread restiveness and eventual breakdown of law and order.” While promising to fix the country after winning the 2023 presidential election, the PDP said “it is clear that the APC has come to the end of the road in governance and has nothing else to offer Nigerians”.