Mohammed Hayatu-Deen, a former managing director of the now-defunct FSB International Bank, has declared his intention to run for the office of the presidency in 2023. Speaking on Wednesday at a media briefing in Lagos, Hayatu-Deen said if elected president, he would provide a space for Nigerians to express their gifts “through industry, hard work and innovation”. He recently joined the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). While speaking on what he hopes to achieve if elected president, he asked Nigerians to support him “to create the conditions for national rebirth and renewal by re-igniting the boundless energy, imagination and creativity” of citizens. “First, no one needs to be convinced that the system is broken. Across all tiers of government, the quality of delivery of public goods and services is abysmal,” he said. “That the nation is facing a monumental crisis of confidence approaching existential proportions is understood by all. “We need an unusual kind of leader fully equipped with the type of skills, character and experience to safely navigate the Nigerian people out of these stormy waters to a much brighter and better place reflective of the nation’s rich potentials for greatness.” The aspirant said he is best suited for the job because he has a better understanding of the country’s challenges. “I believe I have a good grasp of the opportunities and challenges confronting this country; and I amply possess the skills, background and experience to do the job,” he said. “I was born here, went to school here and worked here all my life. So, I saw this country go through many of its peaks and valleys. As an economist, I have a clear understanding of the difference between successful nations which create economic miracles and laggard nations. “I have a solid understanding of the economic success formula required to resuscitate and turn around a nation in deep social and economic malaise.” Hayatu-Deen added that he joined the PDP because it “provides a veritable platform for jump-starting economic and social reforms with determination, vigor and conviction”.