The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) says it has intercepted three million capsules of opioids weighing 1500kg at the Lagos seaport. In a statement on Friday, Femi Babafemi, NDLEA spokesperson, identified the drugs to include tapentadol and carisoprodol, which he said are considered “more dangerous” than tramadol. Opioids are usually used for pain but are considered dangerous because of the effects they have on people’s health. According to Babafemi, the drugs were hidden in packages labelled as printing machines and insulating fittings. “Operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, NDLEA, have intercepted three million capsules of opioids more dangerous and potent than tramadol at Jaelith Bonded Container Terminal under Tincan seaport in Apapa area of Lagos,” the statement reads. “The seizure of 3,000,000 capsules of Tapentadol and Carisoprodol weighing 1,500 kilograms on Monday 7th March 2022, followed a similar operation in which anti-narcotic officers of the Agency also intercepted 8,613 kilograms of Loud cannabis smuggled in from Ghana through the waterways at the Eko Atlantic Beach, Victoria Island, Lagos the previous day, Sunday 6th March. “The seized drugs at the bonded terminal were discovered during a joint examination of a 20ft container, SUDU 7774749 with men of customs service. Though the consignment was said to have originated from Ningbo province in China and falsely labelled as containing 271 packages of ‘insulating fittings, faucet water closet wc, industrial office printing machine, investigations revealed that information on the bill of laden and shipping documents was fake. “Further investigations uncovered that the container originated from India and arrived in Nigeria Apapa port on 10th February 2022. Findings showed that the tramadol found and labelled as tafrodol 120mg is actually Tapentadol, which is more dangerous and potent opioid than tramadol. “It was also discovered that the container, SUDU 7774749 was consigned from India in Nhava Sheva port, then transloaded through Morocco and Ghana to Nigeria.” According to the statement, Buba Marwa, NDLEA chairman, commended the officers of Tincan port for their commitment towards ensuring that illicit drugs are eradicated from the country.