Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, says practising the principles of righteousness will move Nigeria forward. The vice-president said this on Thursday while speaking at the Christian Leadership Summit organised by the Bible Society of Nigeria (BSN) with the theme ‘The Bible: Our Reliable Foundation for Maximising Personal and National Well-being’, held in Lagos. According to Osinbajo, the gospel message of Christianity has had an impact on promoting national development across the world. “The gospel is indeed the reliable structure on which personal and national development can be founded,” he said. “There is no developed civilisation in the world that has not benefited from the gospel of Jesus Christ in its development. “Recent history will tell us how the gospel of Jesus Christ transforms societies. The protestant reformation for those who are familiar with history shows us that when believers like you and I in Europe, America and later Asia changed their world by observing the principles of scripture in their everyday lives. “Some of the best writers on the subject such as Ashton, Max Weber, for example, all agreed that even the industrial revolution and the prosperity of the West benefited greatly from the observance of the principles of the gospel, especially through the way the Puritans preached and practised the gospel. “So, honesty, righteousness, trustworthiness in business, in our social interactions were considered fundamental Christian behaviour.” Osinbajo said Christianity is not about religion but about love, adding that such understanding of the essence of the gospel is crucial, especially in a society where religion is often at the heart of division, and sometimes violent conflicts. He commended the BSN for its incredible achievements in translating the Bible into 26 Nigerian languages, adding that there is more work to do for larger outreach. Also speaking, Yakubu Gowon, said: “The future of our nation and indeed Africa is hinged on our affirmation and irrevocable commitment to the word of God, which is the only foundation for maximising our personal and national well-being.” “I implore the architect of policies and nation-building and every one of us to uphold the Bible which is the surest anchor on which our nationhood rests, and be determined to translate the Bible to many languages. This must be a collective responsibility,” he added. On his part, Olusegun Obasanjo, former president who doubled as chairman of the occasion, said: “the Bible made it clear that it is only when we know the truth that we would be free; it is only when we are free that we have personal, family, national and global wellbeing and God is the foundation of the word.”