John Nwodo, the former president-general of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, has denied reports claiming he threatened to deal with gunmen if they attempt to burn his house. TheCable had reported how yet-to-be-identified gunmen invaded the house of George Obiozor, current president-general of Ohanaeze Ndigbo worldwide, on Saturday, and set it ablaze. Nwodo, in a statement on Monday, denied commenting on the burning of Obiozor’s residence, adding that he has been in the United States for more than one week for a medical checkup. “My attention has been drawn to a news item circulating in the social media in Nigeria quoting me as saying that I will deal with gunmen if they try to burn my house. The faceless reporter claimed that Nwodo was reacting to the burning of the home of the incumbent President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo in Imo state,” the statement reads. “Since I left the Ohanaeze presidency after a successful tenure, I have been deliberately away from media glare for obvious reason of allowing my successor own the media space. “I rarely appear in public outing except for where it’s inevitable. I had also turned down several media approaches for interviews as a result of this principled position. “I have been outside the country for over one week for medical checkup yet the mischief maker(s) chose to put words in my mouth as speaking to newsmen in Enugu. “There is no doubt in my mind that those behind this cheap blackmail are engaged in devious act to not only dent my image by continuously dragging my name negatively with IPOB but working assiduously to find an alibi to burn down my house and possibly attack my person. “For the interest of the gullible public, I am presently in United States and did not speak to any media group or individual and have no problem with any group, whether IPOB or anybody, in whatever name called. “This continuous attempt to put my name in the black side of IPOB or some Igbo leaders is bound to fail because it’s not standing on truth of a man who has made enormous sacrifice for his people “Those behind this dangerous act will definitely face the law of the land and of God who detest the destruction of a person’s hard earned reputation unjustly. “I therefore wish to urge the public to disregard the news item and treat it as one of the minuses of social media.”