The Young Legislative Forum of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the house of representatives has endorsed Abdullahi Adamu, former governor of Nasarawa, for the party’s chairmanship position. The forum said Abdullahi has “vast experience” and is the finest aspirant to lead the party to greater heights. Kasimu Maigari, chairman of the forum, spoke on Monday after a closed-door meeting with Adamu in Abuja. “Senator Abdullahi Adamu is somebody with vast experience, both administrative, executive and at the party. So, he is somebody we believe has the right experience to take APC to a higher level,” he said. “APC is a family and we don’t have issues supporting one candidate. Everybody is qualified to occupy the position, but we can only have one chairman at a time. “We are calling on others to rally around him, bring forward all the ideas you want to implement, so that he can look at it and implement them.” Also speaking, Mariam Onuoha, deputy chairman of the forum, said the group has resolved to identify with Adamu and support his ambition. “We are here to endorse and support the candidacy of senator Abdullahi Adamu for the position of national chairman of the party,” she said. “We have come to reach out to one of the aspirants for the office of the national chairman of our great party in the person of senator Abdullahi Adamu, who has also reached out to the forum during his campaign. “Applying the doctrine of reciprocity, we are here to pay our solidarity visit to him and give him our commitment and resolve as a forum to identify with him and to support him in his ambition. We seek and pray that God will help his ambition to come through. “We also use this opportunity to appeal to all APC faithful to remain resolute in their support for the APC. The APC remain the strongest and most formidable party in Africa. “Every political party has its teething problems, but the party has remained sound in its approach to delivering the dividends of democracy to the Nigerian people and we will stop at nothing to ensure that the party is united now more than ever to attack all the problems facing it.” The development comes weeks before the APC national convention scheduled to hold on March 26. Meanwhile, TheCable had reported how President Muhammadu Buhari approved the proposed zoning formula for the national offices of the party.