Ebelechukwu Obiano, wife of Willie Obiano, former governor of Anambra state, says she will be seeking a senatorial seat in the 2023 general election. She is seeking the Anambra north senatorial seat which is currently held by Stella Oduah, former minister. Speaking with journalists in Awka, Anambra capital, on Wednesday, the former first lady said her decision to run for the office is because of “pressure from my people”. Obiano said contesting the office in the general election “is the will of God.” “My interest to join the senatorial race is in response to an overwhelming pressure and calls from my people to represent them in the senate at the national assembly, Abuja,” she said. “I have been attested to by the good people of Anambra state, service to people, humanity and sharing love and putting smiles on sad faces are my priorities in life, and I know that it is the will of God because the Bible says that God is love. “Therefore, having witnessed and been positively touched by my ever willing disposition to care for people, empower the poor and needy, especially women and children, particularly widows, orphans and the destitute, my people decided that I should come and serve them better in a higher capacity.” The former Anambra first lady said she has apologised to Chukwuma Soludo, governor of Anambra, over the altercation she had with Bianca Ojukwu on the day of his inauguration. According to her, her apology was in a letter she addressed to Soludo. “As a peaceful person that I am well known for, violence has never been in my character,” she said. “I remain grateful to several elders, statesmen, friends and associates of the Obianos, as well as countless number of good people of Anambra state who called and expressed their concerns and offered wise counsels and words of comfort after the unfortunate drama.” Her letter read in part: “All those who know me can testify that before and throughout my eight years as the First Lady of the state, I pursued peace, promoted philanthropic gestures which empowered many of our less privileged people. “No excuse can therefore be tenable as justification for such public embarrassment, no matter the height of provocation. “Equally, I wish to extend the same apology to all the important dignitaries, the people of Anambra state, as well as the entire Ndigbo for that unintended embarrassment at the occasion.”