Google’s Equiano, a subsea internet cable, has arrived in Togo — its first landing spot in Africa. The subsea cable will run from Portugal along the West Coast of Africa connecting Europe to Togo, Nigeria, Namibia, South Africa, and Saint. Helena. The submarine cable, which offers a fifth-generation (5G) mobile service, landed in Togo on Friday following a partnership deal involving the Togolese government, Google, and CSquared, an open-access wholesale broadband infrastructure company. According to a statement made to TheCable, the internet cable offers 20 times more bandwidth than any other cable currently serving West Africa, as Togo becomes the first landing point of the submarine cable in Africa. Google Africa also confirmed the development in a statement on its website. Equiano’s planned route and branching units, from which additional potential landings can be built.Source: Google Cloud “In 2019, we introduced the Equiano subsea cable, which will run from Portugal along the West Coast of Africa — connecting Europe to Togo, Nigeria, Namibia, South Africa, and St. Helena. Today, we are announcing the Equiano subsea cable has arrived in Lomé, Togo — marking the cable’s first stop along Africa’s Atlantic coast,” it said. The subsea internet cable is part of Google’s $1 billion programme to build digital capacity on the continent. This year, it is also expected to land in Lagos (Nigeria), Swakopmund (Namibia,) and Cape Town (South Africa), with branching units in place for further phases of the project. For Togo, Equiano is said to be vital and will play a strategic part in supporting the country’s digitalisation plans. Cina Lawson, minister of digital economy and digital transformation for Togo, said broadening the access to high-speed internet was a fundamental part of their national digital development process as they strive towards achieving the objectives set out in their Digital 2025 Strategy. “As Togo continues to earn its place on the regional and international stage as a digital hub and a favourable ecosystem for innovation and investment, our collaboration with Google and CSquared in successfully landing Equiano further demonstrates Togo’s commitment to enhancing public and social services for all citizens so that they can benefit economically,” she said. Nitin Gajria, managing director of Google Sub-Saharan Africa, said the landing of Equiano affirms Google’s commitment to the continent and support Africa’s digital transformation. “We are thrilled that Togo will be Equiano’s first landing on the African continent, as it aligns with the country’s continuing efforts to promote digital inclusion for Africa. We look forward to working closely with the Togolese government and the ministry of digital economy and transformation as they continue to build their digital infrastructure,” Gajria said. Lanre Kolade, group chief executive officer of CSquared, said Squared was honoured to be part of Togo’s digital strategy, a plan focused on social inclusion and economic development that will transform the economy with accessible, safe, and affordable broadband, across gender, and geography. “CSquared Woezon, our joint venture with Société d’Infrastructures Numériques (SIN), will put in place the next generation of connected infrastructure on which the digital ecosystem, the economy, and the government can ride,” he said. “Beyond the landing of Google’s Equiano in Togo, the JV will also manage and rollout Fiber Metros and National Backbone across the country, moving Togo forward on its quest to become a digital hub in West Africa with connectivity into neighbouring countries, Ghana, Benin, and Burkina Faso.”