Danjuma Goje, senator representing Gombe central, on Tuesday disbursed various cash amounts to 2,200 youths and women as startup capital for their respective businesses. According to a statement issued by the media office of the senator, out of the 2,200 beneficiaries of the senator’s empowerment prigramme, 1000 were male youths while 1,200 were women, all drawn from Yamaltu-Deba and Akko local government areas. ”Although the various cash donations to the 1,200 were not specified, each of the male youths received N30,000, amounting to N30 million,” the statement said. ”The 1,000 youths drawn were trained in various skills by the National Directorate of Employment (NDE), towards attaining self reliance.” Speaking shortly after the presentation of the seed money, Goje asked them to utilise the money for the intended purpose, adding that it was in line with his vision of alleviating the sufferings of the people. According to Goje, he had initially supported the beneficiaries with food packages, as well as starter packs comprising sewing machines, power generating set to boost their business. He was represented by Saidu Kumo, his special assistant who said the senator was worried over the increasing rate of youth unemployment in the state, with its attendant consequences on the society. Goje said: “This programme is aimed at eradicating poverty and empowering our youths in Gombe Central to have access to economic wellbeing.” “This has been the tradition of Senator Goje’s politics to empower people since the return of this democracy to get employment directly or indirectly.” Kumo said the purpose of the seed capital is to encourage self reliance as well as to eradicate poverty and unemployment with a view to boosting the macro economy of the state. He said the programme is a part of the senator’s constituency project, saying: “The senator has been doing so many things, building schools, mosques, hospitals, providing buses, ambulance and executing rural electrification projects.” Also speaking, Hassan Mustapha, state coordinator of NDE, lauded the efforts of Goje, adding that the senator is the first person to collaborate with the directorate on empowerment of constituents. He said the beneficiaries were trained across different sectors of the economy in order to be relevant. The state coordinator asked the beneficiaries to use the sum to improve their businesses for the good of their families and communities.