We all know that life can become challenging. And in this time of God when, it’s all too easy to lose belief in your awesomeness and just go with the grind, waiting and hoping for the perfect moment to chase your dreams. It’s easy to accept the chaos life throws at you, lose belief in your ability to effect the desired change you want to see and postpone action till the right job comes or when you have enough money, or maybe when you move abroad, to live out that extraordinary life you’ve always wanted since you were five years old. But unless we have a magic formula to remain forever young, we all must get a move-on, on living our best life to the fullest. We often assume successful people have had it all good, an easy-peasy journey to where they are now because they perhaps have a huge signpost that says ‘lucky’ on their foreheads. The fact, however, is that these people exhibit an inordinate amount of self-belief and can take opportunities presented to them and bring them to fruition. If we too, like them, can realise the magnanimity of the opportunities presented to us now, our dream lives will just be at the reach of our fingers. It is this message of hope and encouragement that conscientious companies, who genuinely care for the overall wellbeing and personal success of their consumers, regularly seek to pass across. One of such brands is the leading malt drink brand, Amstel Malta. In its recent Television commercial tagged “My Time is Now”, the premium Malt brand encourages young Nigerians to quit waiting for the perfect time or moment to start living their best lives. The ” My Time is Now” commercial tells the relatable story of a young Nigerian who experiences frustration and disappointment because she is not where she wants to be in life. We’ve all been there, done that, right? After deep reflection, she realises that ‘Her Time is Now’ and that she has the capabilities to turn her life around and make her dreams become a reality. She then takes charge of her life and finds the gumption to go after her goals, inevitably becoming the best version of herself in the end. In a social and economic climate riddled with challenges, it’s always refreshing to receive messages like this one, that bring smiles to our faces and a sense of renewed hope in our hearts. With almost three decades of existence as a top malt drink brand in Nigeria’s beverage industry, Amstel Malta consistently wows us with its numerous messages of love and encouragement. The ” My Time is Now ” commercial reminds us of the evergreen lesson on using our ingenuity and determination to make the present work for us.