Joe Biden, president of the United States of America, says Russian President Vladimir Putin “cannot remain in power” over the latter’s decision to invade Ukraine. Biden said this on Saturday while speaking in Warsaw, Poland, on the US’ support to Ukraine. He also compared the impact of the Ukraine invasion to that of the Second World War. “For God’s sake, this man cannot remain in power,” he said. “A dictator bent on rebuilding an empire will never erase the people’s love for liberty. Ukraine will never be a victory for Russia, for free people refuse to live in a world of hopelessness and darkness. “We would have a different future, a brighter future rooted in democracy and principle, hope and light, of decency and dignity, and freedom of possibilities.” Biden said he believes that the people of Russia do not welcome the “killings of innocent children and grandparents”, or for hospitals and schools “to be pummelled by Russian bombs”. “These are not the actions of a great nation. Of all people, you the Russian people, as well as all people across Europe, still have the memory of being in a similar situation in the 30s and 40s — the situation of World War II, still fresh in the minds of many grandparents in the region,” he said. “Whatever your generation experienced — whether it experienced the siege of Leningrad, or heard about it from your parents and grandparents, train stations overflowing with terrified families fleeing their homes, nights sheltering in basements and cellars, mornings sifting through the rubble in your home — these are not memories of the past, not anymore. It’s exactly what the Russian army is doing in Ukraine right now. “But we will not cease our efforts to get humanitarian relief in Ukraine and for the people who have made it out of Ukraine. “Notwithstanding the brutality of Vladimir Putin, let there be no doubt that this war has already been a strategic failure for Russia.” It has been more than a month since the war broke out in Ukraine, and scores have died, while the global economy has been significantly affected. However, Biden says he does not see the war ending soon. “We need to be clear-eyed. This battle will not be won in days and months. We need to steel ourselves for the long fight ahead,” he added.