The Lagos state police command says it has commenced investigation into the alleged disappearance of Ayanwole Oluwabamise, a 22-year-old lady, who boarded a Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) vehicle on February 26. Adekunle Ajisebutu, Lagos police spokesperson, in a statement on Saturday, said two suspects had been arrested in connection with the alleged disappearance of Oluwabamise. BACKGROUND According to NAN, the 22-years-old works as a fashion designer at Chevron estate in the Ajah axis of Lagos and spends the weekends at Ota, Ogun state, with her sister. On February 26, while returning to Ota from Ajah, Oluwabamise was said to have boarded a BRT bus with the number 240257 going to Oshodi, Lagos at about 7 pm at Chevron bus stop. During the journey to Oshodi, the fashion designer observed that the driver was not picking up other passengers at subsequent bus stops along the route. Worried by that development, she chatted with her friend via the phone by sending voice notes detailing her current predicament on the bus. From the conversation, the victim told her friend that the driver of the BRT bus said he liked her and asked for her name and other details, according to NAN. The victim also told her friend to pray for her as she was suspicious of the bus driver, and in response, her friend asked her to alight at the Oworonsoki bus stop, some kilometres to the Oshodi bus stop. The fashion designer equally sent a video to her friend showing how dark the BRT bus was with the comment: “there are three men and one woman in the bus. The woman is sitting at the back. That’s the number of the bus in case. Please pray for me”. That was the last time her friend heard from her. NAN reported that the victim’s family had a meeting with the Lagos Bus Service Ltd (LBSL) on March 2, and they were assured that efforts were being made to arrest the driver. The bus driver, including his guarantor, had not been seen. LAGOS CP ORDERS STATE CID TO TAKE OVER CASE Abiodun Alabi, Lagos commissioner of police, has directed that the case of the alleged disappearance should be transferred to the state criminal investigation department, Panti. “In the course of the ongoing investigation, two suspects have been arrested and are currently helping in our investigation,” the statement reads. “While assuring that police detectives will continue to work assiduously to find the missing lady and bring her abductors to justice, the command wishes to appeal to anyone with useful information that could help in our investigation to promptly give it to us for further necessary actions. “Subject who hails from Moba L.G.A. in Ekiti state is about 5 feet plus tall, dark in complexion and speaks Yoruba and English languages well. “This isolated incident notwithstanding, the police command is committed to protecting lives and properties of all residents of the state at all times.” ‘CHEVRON/LEKKI ROUTE NOT OPERATED BY US’ — Primero The management of Primero Transport Services (PTS) Limited, one of the operators of BRT, said the Chevron/Lekki axis is not part of its route. In a statement on Saturday, Primero also said the bus identified as the vehicle used by the victim is not owned or operated by the organisation. “Primero, as a private organisation, is concerned about the safety of all her customers and Lagos commuters in general. We take the safety and security of all commuters on Primero buses as a priority, and as such, this report is a concern to us. “However, the alleged routes plied by the bus (Chevron/Lekki) is not operated by Primero Transport Services Limited. “The alleged bus, identified in the video distributed on social media, is not owned or operated by Primero Transport Services Limited. “There are several bus operating companies (BOCs) in Lagos state managing ‘blue BRT’ buses. These BOCs are assigned different routes across the state by the regulatory body, the Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority (LAMATA). “Primero is assigned the Ikorodu to TBS and Oshodi to Abule Egba corridors. Our buses do not operate at Chevron/Lekki/Ajah.”