A coalition of women groups in Imo state, on Tuesday, protested at the Imo house of assembly over the recent decision of the national assembly on the gender bills. Chioma Uzodimma, wife of Imo governor, who was represented by Nkechi Ugwu, commissioner for gender and vulnerable groups, led the protest. The rally was part of activities to mark the International Women’s Day celebration. Speaking at the Imo house of assembly, Ugwu urged the lawmakers to also also ensure the passage of the gender bills when it gets to the state level. TheCable had reported the national assembly voted some against bills seeking to amend the constitution to give women more opportunities in governance as well as provide for citizenship by registration for foreign spouses of Nigerian women. However, on Tuesday, the house of representatives revoked its decision on three of the bills. The bills will now be reconsidered by the lower chamber. Speaking on the development, Ugwu said the women will not participate in future elections if the bills are not passed. “We urge you to use your good office to ensure our rights are protected. We should be able to contribute to the political development of the country and we want the decision taken to be reviewed,” she said. “You are husbands to wives, fathers to daughters, brothers to sisters. We can do everything and we ask you to lend your voice to ensure the right thing is done, otherwise we will not be part of the election process.” In response, Kennedy Ibeh, speaker of the Imo house of assembly, said the house supports gender inclusion. “We are aware the national assembly is amending the constitution. Some of these amendments touched on gender and a lot of bills sponsored by women. We are not unmindful of the provisions of the constitution and we know it doesn’t support exclusion on the basis of gender. We know women are asking for more, to be carried along, and there is nothing wrong in it,” he said. “However, constitutional provisions must he complied with. The process is not conclusive and will trickle down to state houses of assembly and we assure you we are gender friendly. “When it gets to us, we will be in a better position to do what is right. It will not be my sole decision and will be put to vote and by God’s grace, it will be passed. “Please discard your threats. If you boycott the elections, it will affect you negatively too. Trust us to do what is right because we love you and we will continue to do all in our power to protect you.”