Athletes from Russia and Belarus have been banned from participating at the 2022 Winter Paralympics in Beijing. The International Paralympic Committee (IPC) announced the ban on Thursday  — a few hours after it came under intense criticism for allowing competitors from both nations to take part in the games, albeit under a neutral banner. “What we have decided upon is the harshest possible punishment we can hand down within our constitution and the current IPC rules,” Andrew Parsons, IPC president, had said on Wednesday. But in a statement on Thursday, it was revealed that the “situation in the athlete villages” had become “untenable”. “In taking our decision yesterday, we were looking at the long-term health and survival of the Paralympic movement,” Parsons said in the statement. “We are fiercely proud of the principles and values that have made the movement what it is today. “However, what is clear is that the rapidly escalating situation has now put us in a unique and impossible position so close to the start of the Games. Yesterday we said we would continue to listen, and that is what we are doing.” According to him, the decision became necessary due to the threat of widespread withdrawals from other countries as well as concerns about safety. “In the last 12 hours, an overwhelming number of members have been in touch with us and been very open, for which I am grateful. They have told us that, if we do not reconsider our decision, it is now likely to have grave consequences for the Beijing 2022 Paralympic Winter Games,” he said. “Multiple National Paralympic Committees, some of which have been contacted by their governments, teams and athletes, are threatening not to compete. Ensuring the safety and security of athletes is of paramount importance to us and the situation in the athlete villages is escalating and has now become untenable.” The Paralympic Games will commence on Saturday, with the opening ceremony taking place on Friday. Russian President Vladimir Putin has been in the public eye after he ordered troops to invade Ukraine as face-off between the two countries deepens.