Girls Voices Initiative’s, non-governmental organisation (NGO), has partnered the French Embassy’s PISCCA Programme to honour 18 women in the global film industry. The selected filmmakers were honoured as part of events to mark the International Women’s Day. The event was held as part of programmes for the maiden edition of the Women’s International Film Festival Nigeria (WIFFEN). Speaking at the award festival, which held in Abuja recently, Carolyn Seaman, creative director of the NGO, said this year’s celebration aims to project a world that would be free of bias, stereotypes, and discrimination. She said the WIFFEN 2022 is focused on encouraging female filmmakers to be at their best in their profession. “For us, this is a journey that started since 2019 with the French embassy in Nigeria. We’ve been training young talent and female filmmakers,” she said. Also speaking, Tony Goodman, Nollywood actor, said parents should support their female children to join the film industry. He said parents have major roles to play in shaping the minds of their young ones, adding that children tend to become a product of whatever is deposited in them by their parents. “It is sickening to hear people discourage their daughters or female children from getting into the mainstream of the entertainment industry,” he said. Awardees at the event were listed as: “Best Short – Margaux Fazio – Switzerland; Best Picture – Carol of the Bells; Best Documentary Feature – Daughters of Eve – Zanah Thirus – USA; Best Documentary Short – The Story of All of Us Women – Itxaso Diaz – Spain; Best Student Film – La Foto Perfetta – Eleonora Mozzi – Italy with an additional €1,000 award presented by the French embassy”. Others were “Best Director – The Letter Room – Elvira Lind – USA; Best Actress – Freedom Come — Maggie Osuome – Nigeria; Best Animation Short Film – I AM – Shafigheh Asani – Iran; Best Original Score – Last Days of Summer – Zaneta Rydzewska — Poland; Best Lighting – Brave Little Army – Carine Zahner – Canada; Best Costume – Dolapo is Fine – Martelle Hunt – United Kingdom; Best Production Design – The Call of Water – Siena Tone – USA; and Best Child Actress – Phoenix – Kenza Ben Dhiab – Tunisia”. Others that received awards were “Best Editing – Plastic Dream – Hande Yildirimer – Turkey; Best Cinematographer – Dana – Claudia Rodriguez – Spain; Best Sound Design – Arising – Jessica Gallant – USA; Outstanding Juror Award – Helene Pont – France; and Inspiring Filmmaker Award – Last Meal – Carolina Castilho – USA”. Present are the occasion were Emmanuelle Blatmann, the French ambassador who was represented by Rafael Pont, head of cooperation and cultural affairs at the embassy; and Esmond Reid, the Jamaican high commissioner to Nigeria.