The house of representatives has resolved to investigate the attack on a train in Kaduna state. The lawmakers will also investigate the recent attack at Kaduna airport which resulted in the death of a security guard. The decision of the green chamber followed the adoption of a motion of urgent public importance sponsored by Nnaji Nnolim, a lawmaker from Enugu state. TheCable had reported how a train on its way from Abuja to Kaduna was attacked by gunmen in the Kateri-Rijana area of Kaduna state on Monday night. The train was said to have almost reached Rigasa, its final stop. The gunmen were said to have blown up the rail track after which they launched an attack on the passengers. Contributing to the motion during plenary on Tuesday, Aminu Suleiman, a lawmaker from Kano, said: “I never believed that this incident really happened. “It surprises me and truly troubles me as a person that this thing could happen in the Federal Republic of Nigeria. This thing that happened – that truly happened – actually challenged us as a nation. “I think these bandits have taken these deliberate killings to the sovereignty of this country, far beyond what we can comprehend. So, we must accept collective failure. We must present a very formidable front as a house to ensure that these things do not happen again. And for it not to happen, somebody somewhere must be held responsible.” Onofiok Luke, a lawmaker from Akwa Ibom, said too much priority has been given to “political activities” while little attention is paid to the security of lives and properties. “It is saddening that we can have a security breach to a point of infraction in the airport. It is quite saddening,” he said. “We have had our train and our rail affected just some few hours ago. We seem to be involved in so many political activities as of present but there are critical issues affecting the lives of Nigerians. We seem to be involved in 2023 (general elections). “My call this morning is for every one of us, from the executive to the legislature, from the federal to the state and local governments, to come together for us to proffer solutions and provide security for Nigerians, which is the primary objective of government. Those who used to go to Kaduna by road became challenged because of kidnappings on the Abuja-Kaduna road. Then, the railway and trains came but they are being challenged today.” PROBE BEGINS WEDNESDAY To investigate the matter, the lawmakers have invited Babagana Monguno, national security adviser (NSA); Bashir Magashi, minister of defence; Isiaka Amao, chief of air staff; Yusuf Bichi, director-general, Department of State Service (DSS); Alkali Baba, inspector-general of police (IGP); Hadi Sirika, minister of aviation and Rotimi Amaechi, minister of transportation. The director-general, Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority; managing director, Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), managing director, Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), general manager and Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) are also expected to appear before the lawmakers. The government officials are to appear before the leadership of the house and committees on aviation, national security, police, army, airforce, defence and land transport. The sitting of the committees is expected to commence on Wednesday, March 30.