Yahuza Yusuf, acting national president of the Cattle Dealers Association of Nigeria, says Okezie Ikpeazu, governor of Abia, has promised to pay N2 million each as compensation to families of slain cattle traders. TheCable had reported how several persons were killed by gunmen who attacked the new cattle market in Omumauzor community in Ukwa west LGA in Abia, on February 15. The violent attack elicited condemnation from many Nigerians, including the Abia state government. On Monday, a delegation of the Abia state government led by Kalu Ogbu, the monarch of Abiriba kingdom, visited Gombe to commiserate with the state government and the people of the state. Most of the victims of the attack were indigenes of Gombe. The Abia state government delegation was received by Manassah Daniel Jatau, deputy governor of the state at the Gombe International hotel. Speaking during the meeting, Yusuf said Ikpeazu has paid N150,000 per head of the cattle lost with the promise to pay N2 million as compensation to the families of the deceased traders. “He said, the governor had cushioned the effect of the loss by paying 150,000( one hundred and fifty thousand naira only) per head of a cattle and has promised 2,000,000( Two Million naira only) to families of the deceased,” the acting national president was quoted in a statement by Jack Tasha, media aide to Gombe deputy governor. On his part, Ogbu, Abia monarch, said the state governor expressed displeasure over the “unfortunate” attack on the cattle traders, adding that Ikpeazu has vowed to fish out the perpetrators. The monarch said a new place has already been allocated as a cattle market with an assurance of 24-hour security service to facilitate the smooth operation of cattle dealers in Abia. Responding, Gombe deputy governor commended the Abia state government for taking a bold step to sympathise with the state in a bid to cement the good relationship between the north and the south. Jatau bemoaned the erosion of the African value of brotherliness, adding that the country needs to get it right on its cultural values.