Some civil society organisations (CSOs) have faulted the national assembly over the rejection of bills seeking to promote better female representation in governance. Their position was contained in a statement signed by the 229 CSOs on Wednesday. The lawmakers had, on Tuesday, voted against bills seeking to provide more opportunities for women in political parties and governance. Reacting to the development, the CSOs criticised the lawmakers for denying women the opportunity of inclusion. “Nigeria women are disappointed and aggrieved at the actions of the 9th National Assembly (NASS) on Tuesday, March 1, 2022, when they denied women the opportunity of inclusion and representation in governance by voting against the gender bills,” the statement reads. “The NASS has spoken loud and clear that they do not want progress for society: for mothers, aunties, sisters, wives, and for daughters. “The men of the 9th NASS have reinforced the discrimination and political bias against women as enshrined in the 1999 constitution by denying citizenship to a foreign-born husband of a Nigerian woman (while it allows Nigerian men’s foreign-born wives to be awarded automatic citizenship), denying Nigerian women indigeneity through marriage,  denying 35% appointed positions for women and settling for 20%, denying women affirmative action in party administration and leadership, and denying specific seats for women in the National Assembly.” The CSOs, however, demanded that the lawmakers reconsider the bills. “Nigerian women, therefore, demand that all gender bills be reconsidered. Ultimately, our demands will benefit not just women but Nigeria as a whole,” they said. “More women in governance will only bring progress, and respect for Nigeria in the comity of nations. We cannot, in 2022, be negotiating the rights of women and the sanctity of the dignity of girls. “We call on the National Assembly to re-present these bills as a matter of urgency and ensure that they are passed.” The CSOs that signed the statement are listed below.    