The Lagos state government has arraigned Andrew Ominnikoron, a bus rapid transit (BRT) driver, over the alleged rape and murder of Oluwabamise Ayanwole. Ominnikoron was arraigned on a four-count charge bordering on conspiracy, murder and rape before Sherifat Sonaike, judge of a Lagos high court. TheCable had reported that Bamise went missing after she boarded a BRT bus driven by Ominnikoron at Ajah axis of the state on February 26. Nine days later, the corpse of the 22-year-old was found on Carter Bridge in Lagos Island. Subsequently, Ominnikoron was arrested by operatives of the Department of State Services in Ogun state after he fled Lagos. After he was apprehended, two other female passengers accused the driver of sexual harassment. While Onyinyechi Anoke, a medical doctor who boarded the bus on December 29, 2021, said she was able to escape the defendant’s rape attempt, Nneka Maryjane Ozezulu alleged that she was raped on November 25 by the defendant. On March 11, a Yaba chief magistrates’ court remanded the defendant pending DPP’s legal advice. At the court session on Tuesday, Jide Martins, Lagos state director of public prosecution, said the defendant raped 29-year-old Ozezulu on November 25, 2021. He said the incident took place around 7 pm at Lekki–Ajah Conservation Centre, off Lekki-Ajah expressway in Lagos. The DPP also told the court that Ominnikoron conspired with others now at large and forcefully had sexual intercourse with the 22-year-old Bamise without her consent after which he murdered her. He said the defendant and others still at large on February 26, 2022 killed Bamise by throwing her out of a moving bus at Carter bridge. According to the prosecutor, the offences committed are contrary to and punishable under sections 411, 223, 260 and 165 of the Criminal Laws of Lagos state, 2015. Upon arraignment, the defendant pleaded not guilty to the charges. The prosecution then prayed the court to further remand the defendant at the correctional centre and fix a date for trial to commence. Sonaike ordered that the defendant should remain at the correctional centre and fixed May 9 for trial.