A Nigerian lady has narrated how alleged operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) raided a hotel in Ibadan, Oyo state, and arrested many lodgers. In a Twitter thread, the lady said she lodged with her boyfriend in a hotel they have patronised several times since 2020. She said around 3am, two men barged into their room screaming that they are EFCC operatives and asking them to bring their phones. The lady explained that she kept calm although she was scared because her boyfriend has a nerve condition and was into cryptocurrency. She said she gave them her phone first so her boyfriend could hide his cryptocurrency apps. According to her, they returned her phone after she said she is a baker and confirmed with pictures of her work. “They started searching my boyfriend’s phone and one asked if I was his girlfriend’s or wife and I decided to seize the opportunity to make small talk and jokes. Told him I’m his girlfriend but I’m on the way to becoming his wife. He laughed and asked why he hasn’t married me yet, I said no money. He said but we have money for a hotel, I said hotel money is shikini nau Officer, we want a big wedding. He laughed and said we must marry o, I said definitely and I’d even send an invite to them. He laughed and asked his colleague to give my man his phone back because of me. That they should move on to other rooms,” she wrote. “They broke every single room in every single building here and the hotel has 3 buildings. The hotel is A3 hotels, Samonda, opposite Ventura. They raided all rooms and packed a lot of guys and girls. Drove their cars away too. Beat some, punished some. It was horrible.” My bf came down to Ibadan to see me and we lodged in the hotel we’ve always stayed since 2020. Fast forward to around 3am, we heard a loud bang from our sleep and gbam, the door was wide open already. Two men came in and dragged one young guy in as well and kept screaming… https://t.co/vwGRGuUCPj pic.twitter.com/ilWN04gxYy — Ambrosia  (@dojarabbit) March 30, 2022  Her thread has sparked some reactions on the microblogging platform, with some users criticising the EFCC for the alleged invasion. “Why will @officialEFCC officers be acting like rogues? What happened to intelligence gathering, going to a location & requesting your suspect to open their door or talk to the hotel owners? Why are you going around attacking innocent people because of few criminals?” a user wrote.