Bello Matawalle, governor of Zamfara, has cautioned governors in the All Progressives Congress (APC) against “promoting disharmony” in the party. In a statement issued by Zailani Bappa, his special adviser on public enlightenment, media and communications, Matawalle said members of the party need to be united ahead of the 2023 general election. Over the past weeks, there has been wrangling in the party over some activities leading to the national convention scheduled for March 26. On Monday, Abubakar Sani Bello, governor of Niger, took over as the APC caretaker committee chairman — replacing Mai Mala Buni, who was appointed to the position in June 2020. TheCable had reported that the Yobe governor had perfected plans to scuttle the party’s national convention in order to remain as caretaker chairman. Subsequently, Nasir el-Rufai, governor of Kaduna, said Buni’s lawyers colluded with a petitioner to “destroy” the national convention. On Thursday, Rotimi Akeredolu, governor of Ondo state, said some “Yahoo Yahoo governors” in the APC supported Buni to circumvent the will of party members. Commenting on the development, Matawalle said his colleagues should avoid soiling the image of the party. “It is not right for us to wash our dirty linens in the media, especially at this critical time of the party’s transformation as we move towards a decisive period in 2023,” he said. “I believe that each of us has been trying his best in his way to move the interest of our great party forward. His Excellency, Gov. Mai Mala Buni has no doubt, contributed immensely to the promotion of the party’s fortunes and indeed all other governors who disagreed with one another. “However, we all disagree to agree. That is the beauty of democracy. There is no point in promoting disharmony among ourselves after disagreements are settled,” he said. “It is not wise to drag the name of His Excellency, Mr President into taking sides on issues that are ordinarily a normal political misunderstanding common to every collection of interests. “Now, more than ever before, the party needs the strength and unity to face the challenges ahead as we move towards the critical period of elections of which the party must maintain its supremacy at all levels. Together as one, we shall continue to conquer and prosper.” 