President Muhammadu Buhari is currently meeting with the governors of the All Progressive Congress (APC) at the state house, Abuja. The meeting is taking place ahead of the national convention of the ruling party scheduled for Saturday, March 26. The governors were led to the meeting by Mai Mala Buni, chairman of the interim committee of the party and governor of Yobe state. Buhari had last week asked the APC governors to allow the Yobe state governor to take charge of the national convention. In a letter dated March 16 and addressed to Atiku Bagudu, Kebbi governor and chairman of the Progressives Governors Forum (PGF), Buhari had said there is a need for the party to avoid litigation ahead of the convention. “It has come to my attention that, because of recent events, the APC is faced with a multiplicity of court cases pending against it in various courts across the country. As a result of this, the party faces the possibility and prospect of the invalidation of all its activities and actions by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC),” Buhari said in the letter. “The party has demonstrated its inability to proceed with the issue of effecting change in the leadership of its Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Committee (CECC), in a way that is inclusive, legal and respectful of the time limit set and required for giving the INEC Sufficient notice of the time and venue for holding its convention. “No doubt, these controversies and uncertainties, as enumerated above, pose a real threat to the party; and may lead to a possible nonrecognition of its activities, elections and the probable invalidation of all its other actions by INEC. This may ultimately even lead [to] its implosion and non-existence. “First, the issue of the leadership of the Caretaker Extra Ordinary Convention Committee (CECC), should immediately return to status quo ante. “Second, all members of the governors’ forum and their followers should desist from any behaviour or utterance that will likely lead to disunity in the ranks of the party, and ultimately jeopardise the transition to the convention.”