The Katsina police command says its operatives repelled attacks by gunmen on communities in the state. Gambo Isah, police spokesperson in the state, disclosed this on Saturday at a media briefing in Katsina. He said the police learnt of an attack on a village in Malumfashi, where gunmen were said to have rustled five cows before they were intercepted by the police unit. “On March 11, 2022, credible intelligence was received that terrorists in their numbers, on motorbikes, shooting sporadically with AK-47 rifles, attacked Yanmama village, Malumfashi LGA,” Isah said. “The suspected bandits rustled seven cows and were on their way into the forest, when DPO Kankara was quickly alerted to block their exit route into the Rugu forest.” He said the team succeeded in blocking the gunmen at Kanyar-Nogora, Kukar-Sheka village, Kankara LGA, and engaged in a gun duel with the attackers. Three of them were killed while the seven cows were recovered. Isah added that on the same date, another distress call was received that gunmen attacked Tugu Gari village in Matazu LGA, and rustled an unspecified number of domestic animals. He said a team of policemen were deployed to Yantumaki forest, where they engaged the attackers in a gun duel. According to him, the team successfully repelled the gunmen, killed one of them, and recovered 32 cows and 23 sheep. In separate operations on March 5, the command raided hideouts of suspected gunmen at Yellawa, Hakin-Biri, Danmusa LGA, and Safana LGA. Isah said the camps were razed, while motorcycles, 92 cows and 32 sheep were recovered. “The command succeeded in arresting one Jamilu Sa’idu, aged 28, of Jikamshi village, Rimi LGA, who specialised in calling unsuspecting members of the public through their GSM numbers and threatening them to pay a ransom or risk being kidnapped,” Isah added. “Also, three suspects were arrested in connection with an armed robbery attempt at Tashar Dankawu, Dutsi LGA of the state.” He added that Idrisu Dauda-Dabban, Katsina commissioner of police, commended the efforts of the officers, and urged members of the public to continue to cooperate with security agencies in the ongoing fight against banditry in the state.