Ahmadu Jaha, a member of the house of representatives, says insecurity has become a “cash cow” in the country. Jaha, a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC), spoke on the floor of the lower legislative chamber on Thursday. He was contributing to a motion sponsored by Shehu Balarabe, a lawmaker from Kaduna, on the killings in the state. Jaha said despite the huge funds allocated to the Nigerian Army, insecurity in the country has continued unabated. “In 2021, we budgeted N460 billion for the Nigerian Army alone: only N29 billion was for capital expenditure, the remaining was for recurrent expenditure,” he said. “In 2022 we budgeted N571 billion for the Nigerian Army alone: only 37 billion is capital expenditure, the remaining were recurrent expenditure. Mr speaker, the truth of the matter is that security in Nigeria has become a cash cow business. They don’t want it to finish. “Another thing, somebody brought the issue of national security adviser. We are making one mistake in making appointments, particularly in security architecture. There is no way you can appoint a major general or brigadier general to be a national security adviser and he issues directives to a lieutenant. “I think if you are going to appoint a national security adviser or a defence minister, try and appoint a full-fledged Nigerian army general who was one time chief of defence staff.” Speaking further, the legislator accused one of his colleagues of sabotaging the nation’s security. “Lastly, about the resolution on the floor of this house. I am happy today that everybody has concerns now. When I was speaking on behalf of my constituency in this chamber, an honourable member rose up and said if my people are displaced, how did I manage to win my election. He didn’t know that my election was conducted in IDP camps,” he said. “Two, a member on this floor wrote a letter of commendation to one of the service chiefs that he is doing good. I got a copy of the letter. “I know the honourable member. I will not mention his name, I will deal with him personally.” At this point, Idris Wase, the presiding officer, interrupted him — but Jaha insisted on speaking, adding that: “My speaker, it is a betrayal to the 360 members for an honourable member to write a commendation letter to a service chief commending him for doing a good job while Nigerians are dying.” Wase interrupted again and said: “We have rules and we have procedures as to what we should say. Foul language is not accepted.” In response, Jaha apologised for his outburst, saying he was emotional.