The Nigeria Cricket Federation (NCF) has announced that the six-nation Women’s T20 International Cricket tournament will hold from March 26 to April 4 at the resurfaced Tafawa Balewa Square cricket oval, Lagos. Speaking about the event on Sunday, Uyi Akpata, president of the federation, said it would feature host Nigeria along with Rwanda, Ghana, Sierra Leone, The Gambia and Cameroon. “Our female team has been one of the most improved of all our national teams in the last five years and our gender inclusion development agenda has thrown up massive talents that have left us with an ever-improving side,” he said. “Apart from celebrating the milestones that the NCF has achieved in raising many female cricketers through its grassroots project, the coming event is set to become a part of the process.” According to the NCF president, creating opportunities for the national female team to constantly square up with tough African oppositions is a key objective of the looming tournament which will also help to raise the standards for aspiring players. The Nigerian team has been camped in Benin city for over a week at the Edo Boys High School High Performance Cricket Center under the guidance of national coaches, trainers and selectors. “The team being camped in Benin City initially comprises of 30 players from which a sizeable number would emerge for the final camping in Lagos leading to the tournament,” Akpata also said. The improved cricket facility in Nigeria would be showcased during the six-nation tournament, in addition to the umpires in which the country has invested in the last few years. The resurfaced Tafawa Balewa Square cricket oval that was upgraded to a ten strip turf playing surface in January would also host a first major event, just as Nigerian umpires would get international caps on home soil. Nigeria international, Blessing Etim, will captain the female Yellow-Greens with the hope of making her experience count for the national team as the competition gets underway. Meanwhile, every match at the event will also count for each team’s T20 ranking point on the International Cricket Council’s log.