The governments of Nigeria and Qatar have reiterated commitments to deepen trade between the two countries in manufacturing, construction, oil and gas, technology. Ali Ghanem Al-Hajri, ambassador to the State of Qatar to Nigeria, disclosed this on Wednesday at a meeting with government and businesses delegates in Lagos. Last year, the Nigerian government asked for the cooperation of Qatar in the area of gas development to boost investment in power and gas-based industries. Organised by Qatar Development Bank (QDB), the event tagged ‘Qatar-Nigeria Business Matchmaking Event’ aims to build on the two countries’ socio-economic ties, which have witnessed growth in the last decade. Al-Hajri said the meeting would deepen bilateral relations reflected by the two leaders — Sheik Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani and President Muhammadu Buhari — to build an economic bridge between the two markets. “We think this meeting to deepen bilateral relations reflects the two leadership represented by Sheik Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani, and also his Excellency President Muhammadu Buhari, to build an economic bridge between the two markets,” Al-Hajri said. “This week is a special week for our relationship. Nigeria is the biggest market in West Africa, and there are lots of potentials and opportunities to deal with the Qatari market. I can see a huge economic bridge between the two countries.” At the event, Qatar Development Bank (QDB) engaged with Nigerian businesses on strengthening investment ties across diverse sectors. Representatives of the QDB said the bank intends to expand its footprint through partnerships in various sectors such as building material and construction, construction chemicals, health and medical, oil and gas products, plastics and packaging, and technology services domains, including fintech and ICT solutions. On his part, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, governor of Lagos, said Nigeria would benefit from many industries showcased at the event. Sanwo-Olu, represented by Adebayo Sodade, special adviser on economic planning and budget, said the companies are willing to come to Nigeria if they find reliable partners. “Qatar is one of the richest countries in the world, and it’s good to tap from their experience to see how they’ve been able to get there because we’re also an emerging economy and see how we can collaborate,” Sanwo-Olu said. He said Lagos would benefit immensely from the business discussions.