President Muhammadu Buhari has advised operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to avoid getting involved in partisan politics. The president spoke on Friday at the unveiling of the EFCC’s standard operating procedures, policies and manuals, at an event held at the State House. According to a statement by Femi Adesina, presidential spokesperson, Buhari commended the EFCC on its efforts to fight corruption, including the move to further institutionalise the commission by developing 26 standard operating procedures and 25 policies and manuals for the agency’s units. “I must advise the leadership and operatives of this commission to resist the temptation of being used for partisan politics or be dragged into personal disputes,” he was quoted as saying. “Your job is to serve the nation in its efforts to entrench good governance. “Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad to note that the war against corruption, which is one of the cardinal objectives of this administration, is being strengthened through the institutionalisation of operational procedures, particularly as they form the building blocks of transparency and accountability in administration and public expenditure. “These outstanding feats achieved are being unveiled today and I would like to use this opportunity to encourage other ministries, departments and agencies of government, especially law enforcement agencies to also ensure the standardisation of their processes within the extant laws and regulations as provided in our statutes. “I need not underscore the importance of today’s occasion, but let me remind you that the stakes are high but national expectations are higher. Therefore, we must continue to strive and deal decisively with matters in accordance with the rule of law.” The president also restated his administration’s support to curbing corruption. “On the part of the government, we shall continue to accord all necessary support to MDAs in order to ensure the sustainability of the initiatives already commenced in actualising our vision of a corrupt free society,” he said “Let me conclude by saying that the fight against economic and financial crimes in Nigeria is a collective responsibility of all Nigerians if we are to make meaningful progress as a nation. “I invite you all to fight corruption in all its ramifications and join us to entrench good governance values and integrity within all our systems. As I have often said, ‘If we do not kill corruption, corruption will kill us as a nation.'” The documents unveiled on Friday are said to be the first of its kind to be developed in the EFCC’s 18-year history. On his part, Abdulrasheed Bawa, EFCC chairman, said there are various reforms ongoing in the anti-graft agency, as part of efforts to reposition the commission for better performance. “I will lead an agency that will be the pride of our country,” he added.