BY ADANIKE JOHN The right of first refusal is a contractual right that gives its holder the option to enter a business transaction with the owner of something, according to specified terms, before the owner is entitled to enter into that transaction with a third party. In real estate, the right of first refusal is a provision in a lease or other agreement. It gives a potentially interested party the right to buy a property before the seller negotiates any other offers. From the above introduction, we can discuss without further arguments why Yemi Osinbajo (PYO) deserves the right of first refusal in the race for the presidency, Nothing short of his loyalty and political companionship has been tested and trusted by every Nigerian in terms of representation, delegation, in acting capacity as acting president and overseeing both the national and global top economy driving assignment in different capacity untainted. He is naturally loved and admired by every Nigerian without tribal sentiments. PYO is not a tribalistic leader, no wonder the clarion call for presidency covers almost all 36 states of Nigeria including FCT. The principle of vox populi vox dai, which means the voice of man is the voice of God, is indeed a reality regarding PYO to be Nigeria’s president come 2023. Candidly speaking, the PYO political antecedent even from the state level to the federal level has no blemish but a full good legacy… PYO is not a desperate and over-ambitious leader rather he assumes political positions unstressed because he has divinely ordained for those positions. PYO’s humility is second to none; his oratory and communication skill is worthy of emulation by followers and younger ones. Though many are qualified to be the next president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as PYO is qualified but the truth is that he is more qualified and most preferred by all of Nigeria in respect of tribal colouration. The likes of PYO are unavoidably needed to deliver Nigeria from the economic holocaust and political nepotism and favouritism, to say the least. PYO is a worthy, dedicated and selfless politician per excellence, these traits have been wholly displayed since 2015 till date as the vice president. As the 14th vice president of Nigeria, Osinbajo has remained the only lieutenant in the history of Nigeria whose loyalty and trust are not questionable in the test of time spanning through his first term and the current tenure. Osinbajo’s tenure has been marked by his rising profile, especially with his visionary drive for the social, economic and political stability of the nation. He is a nationalist whose identity is unequivocally uncontroversial. He is a thorough-bred Nigerian whose interest in the people of Nigeria takes credence in his heart.