Hope Uzodimma, governor of Imo, says the state has adopted other measures outside the use of force to address security challenges. The south-east has recorded a surge in the activities of gunmen who attack residents, as well as security operatives and government facilities. On Saturday, the residence of George Obiozor, president-general of Ohanaeze Ndigbo worldwide, was set ablaze by gunmen. Speaking with journalists on Monday after a meeting with Buhari in Abuja, Udodimma said his discussion with the president centred on insecurity in the state and how to improve the situation. “If anything is to go by, we are a God-fearing government. That is why we have not used force as the only way of controlling the violence in Imo state. I just told you that we initiated the involvement of vigilante, where community leaders will get involved,” he said. “Since January 2020 when I came into office, one of the things I initiated was quarterly stakeholders meeting. “As a matter of fact, I have had six stakeholders engagements and the purpose of that engagement is to create a platform where the stakeholders will meet and will also act as an opinion poll to involve people in governance and that has yielded a lot of positive results. “Arising from that, we have also done one-on-one engagement with some critical stakeholders. For those who are aggrieved, I don’t know if those grievances are against the government or against individuals. “But those who think are part of the political system that are not contributing positively to the current administration, we’re also reaching out to them. Of course, I know if anything is to go by, some of the reasonable ones have started coming back. “If you have been following the politics of Imo state of late, given the evolution we have just deployed to rescue the infrastructure that was almost absent and our achievements so far, it has attracted a lot of support from our people. “Leaders from Imo state are united in commending our efforts. If you can go to Imo state and be on the ground, apart from some dissenting voices that are on your social media, I think the state has almost recovered and we’re doing very well. “So, there’s no need at this point in time for people to be aggrieved over what is not in existence. All I urge people to do is to be part of the growing concern, contribute their quota towards the development of the state and support the government of the day to deliver democratic dividends to our people.” The Imo governor said Buhari has approved the deployment of more personnel and weapons to the state. “Generally, it is the subject of insecurity in the south-east and what is required to ensure it is properly controlled,” he said. “We discussed that and he took seriously my recommendations and indeed, I tell you, he immediately gave approval to all that, which includes an increase in manpower of security agencies and then logistics supports ranging from additional arms and ammunition.”