Oliver Stolpe, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) representative in Nigeria, says security challenges and the effects of the COVID pandemic contribute to illicit drug use in the country. Stolpe said this on Friday, while speaking at the launch of the ‘UNODC Strategic Vision for Nigeria 2030’, which held at the office of the federal ministry of justice. The UNODC had, in its World Drug Report 2021, said “with 14.4 percent, drug use prevalence in Nigeria is significantly higher than the global average”. According to Stolpe, corrupt practices also contribute to rising criminal rates, which make drug abuse prevalent in the country. “Nigeria faces serious, multi-dimensional challenges to security and the rule of law. Boko Haram and other terrorist groups target innocents in the north-east and across the Sahel, while piracy — despite progress in 2021 — continues to plague the Gulf of Guinea,” he said. “Organised crime groups take advantage of security gaps to exploit people and smuggle illicit goods, including firearms and drugs, threatening lives, communities, and the environment. “Corruption and illicit financial flows enable crime and terrorism, and deprive people of opportunities, while impunity perpetuates these challenges and undermines public trust. “Meanwhile, drug use prevalence in Nigeria stands at almost 15 percent — almost three times higher than the global average. “The COVID-19 pandemic has only further complicated the situation. In Nigeria, it is estimated to have driven more than 10 million people into poverty this year, increasing their vulnerability to crime, drugs and violent extremism.” He added that as part of efforts to address the situation, “it is critical to strengthen the broad framework of responses, including laws, institutions, capacities, and awareness”. “Our ‘Strategic Vision for Nigeria’ aims to do just that. After extensive consultations with government partners, donors, civil society, and other stakeholders, I am confident that we have identified what Nigeria needs from us, and how we can get it done,” he added. The ‘Strategic Vision for Nigeria’ focuses on five priority areas, which include making the criminal justice system more effective; safeguarding institutions and the economy from illicit financial flows and corruption; fighting terrorism and violent extremism; protecting people and the environment from organised crime; and promoting health through better drug use and HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment and care. The UNODC director also said in tackling the five priority areas, the organisation will partner with diverse stakeholders. “Moreover, Nigerian women will be at the centre of our efforts. Incorporating their views and contributions will ensure that our joint actions are gender-responsive, and benefit from their unique insights and experiences,” Stolpe said. In his keynote address, Abubakar Malami, attorney-general of the federation (AGF), called on relevant stakeholders to support the UNODC in implementing its ‘Strategic Vision for Nigeria’. “Let me state that the federal government is in support of the ‘Strategic Vision for Nigeria 2030’, which will support Nigeria in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), particularly SDG 16 aimed at promoting peaceful inclusive societies for sustainable development, and providing access to justice institutions at all levels,” Malami said. “Nigeria also welcomes the thematic five priority areas of the strategic vision. “Permit me to call on all relevant stakeholders to give the UNODC the required cooperation, collaboration and support to achieve the successful implementation of the ‘Strategic Vision for Nigeria 2030’.”