BY FEJIRO JOHNSON  You must have seen the videos or at least heard it on the radio, television or on social media platforms, hashtags, trends and viral photos. The man, woman, young boy and girl on the streets, at your favourite amala joints, high-brow malls, in the market places, the corporate gurus, upwardly mobile young men and women, your favourite celebrities and politicians; they are all clamouring for the same thing. The most influential persons in the corridors of power know the sound and they also echo it; even the critics whisper it in their sleep, and the antagonists mutter it under their breath. At least, one can be sure that if you take a sample size of over 200 million Nigerians, you will hear their voices echo the same thing: A majority of Nigerians want Osinbajo to run for presidency in 2023. Following the commissioning of the Toyota Certified Service Centre in Isolo, Lagos state, on Monday, March 21, a viral video of an adoring Lagos crowd of mostly youths and artisans, provided millions of Nigerians a glimpse into what a Prof. Yemi Osinbajo (PYO) presidential candidacy would look like. One of them screamed, “Your Excellency”. As his motorcade drove past, Osinbajo unexpectedly came out from his Jeep and waved to the crowd, who increased their adoring chants even further. It was a glimpse of massive support and nationwide endorsement for the VP. The nationwide clamour and support for PYO is just too loud to ignore. No other person in Nigeria today has that kind of nationwide voluntary support. I don’t think any politician has had such spontaneous nationwide support even before he has made any public declaration. Osinbajo is Nigeria’s most hard-working vice-president, and now Nigeria’s favourite presidential candidate. Well, the thing is, the VP is just yet to declare what we already know is an open secret. Nigerians want him to run for president. Doesn’t he just fit the starboy tag? Maybe we can now just call him star president-in-waiting. Osinbajo is APC best choice, if they want to win the presidential elections in 2023 and consolidate their political influence nationwide. When a few other notable politicians declared their candidacy for Nigeria’s highest office, it came and went, just like that. For many Nigerians, Osinbajo’s declaration would be the icing on the cake. He has not even declared yet and he is already dominating the media space and nationwide conversations. You don’t need a soothsayer to read between the lines. Even the deaf can hear the loud voices calling him to run. The blind see it too. Just a few days ago, there was a march for Osinbajo in Abuja. Some weeks before, there were other rallies from the Niger Delta, north to the south-west, from enthusiastic Nigerians calling for Osinbajo to contest for the presidency come 2023. But what do Nigerians really want from Osinbajo, from President Muhammadu Buhari, and why are millions of Nigerians calling for him to run? Is Osinbajo Nigeria’s best candidate at this point? It is debatable, but many would rather be on Osinbajo’s side because they know they will win that debate based on empirical evidence, and the sheer force of the man’s personality, integrity, charisma and public service impact. When a group, The Identify the Right Leader (ITRL), unveiled the Impact Assessment Report on Osinbajo, it captured it well when it noted that: “the policies, actions, and initiatives of Prof. Yemi Osinbajo in the public sector have greatly shaped and continue to shape social, economic, and political development in Nigeria.” Apt indeed. Talk about youth development, digital economy, technology, sports, social investments, justice and the rule of law, ease of doing business, growth of MSMEs, peace, security, development of the Niger Delta, North East, among others; Osinbajo has literally made significant impacts in all these areas/sectors spearheading government, or public-private sector-led programmes under the President Buhari administration. For instance, the vice-president’s several initiatives in technology sector have led to a boom in the sector and created more jobs for young Nigerians. Today, Nigeria boasts of six unicorns, tech companies with a valuation of $1 billion or more. Also, the administration’s Social Investment Programmes (SIPs) under the VP’s watch directly impacted at least 35 million Nigerians, especially the poor and vulnerable, across all the 36 states and the FCT, creating jobs and opportunities for millions of others along the value chains. The Osinbajo-led Economic Sustainability Committee (ESC) recommended several post-COVID-19 recovery interventions, and drafted the government’s Economic Sustainability Plan, which is also chaired by the VP. Due to the various ESP intervention programmes, the country was able to exit recession faster than anticipated. The list goes on. VP’s leadership and impact speak for themselves. ITRL further noted that “Prof Yemi Osinbajo should run for the highest office in the land and be voted for en masse, not only because he is a patriotic, selfless leader and is also highly qualified, following his antecedents, but also because he has demonstrated high competence, capacity and character throughout his life in public service, and looks like the most empathetic (this is lacking in most leaders since Awolowo’s time), most cerebral and most efficient.” Keywords: Competence, capacity and character. Osinbajo, throughout his decades of public service has shown uncommon dedication, competence and commitment to national issues and development. In every sense, he is a true leader, a loyal deputy, a competent hand and a patriot. Now, the waiting game begins. Osinbajo’s spokesman had said the vice-president would announce his decision soon. Nigerians are waiting with bated breath. PYO himself will pick the right time to communicate his decision whether he will run on not. It is not just the most important decision of his life right now; it is the most significant decision for Nigeria’s future. It’s a seal of fate and destiny, no army in the world can stop an idea whose time has come. Osinbajo Hope 2023, New Tribe 2023, PYO for New Nigeria 2023 – choose your favourite tag – is an idea, of seismic, national proportion, that Nigeria needs at this critical juncture of her nationhood. Africa’s most populous country and biggest democracy would definitely be taking a giant leap in the 2023 elections, as it would determine a lot for Nigeria going forward. The country deserves the best hands to run for the presidency. It’s not a lifetime ambition; it is a divine call of destiny to the highest service. For now, we will just “farabale” and we move. But Nigerians want Osinbajo to run. Johnson is a public affairs analyst and social commentator