Cuppy Foundation has donated N7 million to the Lagos state government for sustainable development goals (SDGs) projects. The organisation is founded by Florence Otedola, also known as DJ Cuppy, daughter of billionaire businessman, Femi Otedola. The donation was made to the Lagos office of SDGs and investment to support projects on education and gender equality. Speaking at the presentation of the cheque, Solape Hammond, special adviser to the governor on SDGs and investment, said the gesture highlights the significance of meaningful engagement to address collective challenges from the strength of shared responsibilities. Hammond commended Cuppy Foundation’s efforts towards uplifting education in the state through science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM). She said SDGs programmes create an opportunity for the government to build trust, confidence and explore strong partnerships that will enable the development of broad social protection systems. “While we are identifying strategic opportunities to scale-up interventions on targets of SDGs, we are equally strengthening collective ambitions to combat emerging challenges that mitigate inclusive development,” she said. Hammond said the state’s ambition is to entrench a future of possibilities where everyone can thrive and contribute to sustainable development. “This is a unique example of our outward effort to leverage on the potential of humanitarian communities to enhance our commitment to sustainable growth and development, especially in the education sector,” Solape added. Abosede George, permanent secretary, office of SDGs and investment, remarked that fulfilling the ambitions of the SDGs will require unprecedented effort by everyone in society, including non-governmental organisations, for inclusive development. Lekan Fatodu, senior special assistant to the governor on SDGs, explained that in order to make the 2030 Agenda a reality, broad ownership of the SDGs must translate into strong commitment by all stakeholders. “The SDGs have become so ubiquitous that they serve as a common language,” Fatodu said. “The goals demonstrate humanity’s growing ability not only to agree upon its intended trajectory but to coordinate resources and action on a vast level. “They are an opportunity to fully acknowledge that the fate and well-being of all humans are inextricably linked with one another.” While applauding the support of Cuppy Foundation, Fatodu assured that the state government will continue facilitating strategic partnership and collaboration to realise the deliverables of the global agenda. Commenting, DJ Cuppy said the undertakings with the state government is premised on her foundation’s aspiration to address issues surrounding the education and wellbeing of citizens. Represented by the philanthropy manager, Ruth Okonye, Cuppy said the present administration in the state has a rich network and an enabling structure to mobilise resources for the greater good of all. She said the foundation is excited to identify with the good intention of the Lagos government in catering for the vulnerable ones while stressing that more meaningful contributions towards other goals are already in the pipeline.