Sharon Ikeazor, minister of state for environment, says the federal government will collaborate with World Wildlife Fund (WWF), the world’s leading conservation organisation, to manage the 10 newly approved national parks. According to a statement issued by Saghir Mohammed, the ministry’s director of press, Ikeazor said this on Thursday at the just-concluded fifth United Nations Environment Assembly (UNEA 5). TheCable had reported that Ikeazor, on January 6, said President Muhammadu Buhari approved the creation of 10 new national parks due to the threat faced by wildlife species. The national parks are to be established in Niger, Bayelsa, Kano, Jigawa, Kwara, Katsina Osun and Plateau. Speaking on the partnership, Ikeazor said Nigeria is committed to the post-2020 global biodiversity framework, adding that the country’s national forest policy aims to promote sustainable forest management practices. “The honourable minister also had some bilateral engagements with Marco Lambertini, director-general, World Wild Fund (WWF) for nature, on Nigeria’s commitment to post-2020 global biodiversity framework and the need to collaborate with WWF on the management of the ten new national parks approved by Mr. President,” the statement reads. “She stated that Nigeria has adopted various strategic approaches which includes the development and implementation of national forest policy aimed at promoting sustainable forest management practices; national policies on plastic waste management and solid waste management which supports and promote circular economy; drought and desertification policy to actualise land degradation neutrality and increase community resilience, among others.” Ikeazor added that Nigeria’s energy transition plan serves as a pathway to achieve net zero by 2060. According to the statement, the minister also had an engagement with Sameh Shoukry, Egypt’s environment minister and COP27 president, “and discussed activities on the upcoming COP27 at Egypt in November 2022,” as well as “the strengthening of bilateral ties with both countries on environmental issues”.