The Nigeria Governors’ Wives Forum (NGWF) says the national assembly rejected the progress of women when it rejected the gender bills. Federal lawmakers, on March 1, voted against a bill seeking to provide special seats for women in the national and state houses of assembly. Also rejected was a bill seeking to provide “reserve quota” for women on appointments. In a statement on Tuesday, Bisi Fayemi, Ekiti state first lady, who spoke on behalf of the NGWF, said any county that deliberately undermine the advancement of women, is simply stifling its own advancement. “Our interpretation of what transpired with this pattern of voting at the national assembly on March 1st 2022, is that the progress of Nigerian women has been rejected,” she said. “All the proposed constitutional amendments were meant to end bias against women and ensure the minimization, if not total removal, of barriers millions of women face on the basis of their gender. “We hereby condemn in no uncertain terms this brazen discrimination against Nigerian women. As half of the population of the country, our voices and our lives matter. “There can be no development without the full and equal participation of women in all spheres, and any country that continues to deliberately undermine the advancement of women is simply stifling its own advancement.” Fayemi said the NGWF have resolved to “advice” their husbands (governors) “to increase opportunities for women in politics and decision-making”. “Pressure on federal and state lawmakers for them to do the right thing and be true representatives of the people, with women constituting at least 50%. “Support for women’s rights organisations who are at the forefront of demands, particularly the WOMANIFESTO platform that has been leading these activities. “Solidarity with the handful of women at the national assembly, who bravely continue to push for these reforms against all odds. “Partnerships with local and international development partners who are supportive of all the strides Nigerian women are making to ensure an end to gender bias.” The Ekiti first lady said as part of its activities to commemorate International Women’s Day, members of the NGWF “will participate in the Abuja and Lagos #Occupy National Assembly rallies”. “Other NGWF members will take part in similar activities in their states,” she said.