Abbey Mortgage Bank has launched a mobile banking application to simplify the mortgage banking industry. The company unveiled the app on Monday at a media briefing in Lagos. The bank said the app was developed due to the rise in internet consumers, increased access to web-based and online services, and the rising need to simplify homeownership. Nigeria’s internet subscribers stood at 141 million internet users as at December 2021, according to the latest data from the Nigerian Communication Commission (NCC). Addressing pressmen at the launch, Lolita Ejiofor, general manager, Information Technology & Platforms, said, “The app was developed based on the need to provide a more seamless and convenient banking experience for both existing and new customers. “The app would ensure a better experience is accessible for day-to-day banking services, including opening an account to save towards their equity for a mortgage (“Save to Own”), without the need to visit a branch.” On his part, Felix Omodayo-Owotuga, group head, E-business & support, said the company will always create value with the latest digital solutions. “We remain committed to being there for our customers in their journey to homeownership,” he said. “This game-changing application will facilitate smooth interaction between customers and stakeholders nationwide. It also marks a big step in the democratisation of mortgage banking in Nigeria and providing unprecedented homeownership access for Nigerians in all geographical locations.” Madu Hamman, the managing director/CEO of Abbey Mortgage Bank, said the innovation would help customers navigate the challenges induced by the COVID-19 pandemic. “In keeping with its commitment to simplify homeownership, provide funding to qualified customers and reduce access times, Abbey is utilising the latest technology to consolidate the compendium of care and expand our vision to our customers’ mobile devices,” Hamman said. “This is why we are constantly raising the bar and pushing the limits in service delivery by pioneering innovative solutions that make banking easier and faster for our customers.” Last month, Abbey Mortgage Bank listed additional 3.69 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each on the Nigerian Exchange Limited (NGX) in a push to develop the banking sub-sector.