A high court sitting in the federal capital territory (FCT) has fixed March 21 to deliver judgment on a four-count charge filed by the federal government against Chuma Nzeribe, a former member of the house of representatives. Nzeribe is standing trial on charges over allegations of possession of false documents, impersonation and cheating. The former lawmaker is said to have committed the offences in 2005, 2007 and 2013. “That you, Hon. Chuma Nzeribe, sometime in March 2013 at Abuja, within the jurisdiction of this honourable court did have in your possession a document containing false pretence to wit: Re: Application for Statutory Right of Occupancy within the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja with reference Number MFCT/LA/FCT 1302 dated 18/06/03, bearing the name of Ramatu Alhassan and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 6, 8(b) of the Advance Fee Fraud and other fraud related offences Act, 2006 and punishable under Section 1 (3) of the same Act,” the charge reads. “That you, Hon. Chuma Nzeribe, sometime in 2005 at Abuja, within the Jurisdiction of this honourable court did fraudulently make a false document to wit: Re: Application for Statutory Right of Occupancy within the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja with reference number MFCT/LA/FCT 1302 dated 18/06/03, bearing the name of Ramatu Alhassan and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 363 of the Penal Code Act Cap 532 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria (Abuja) and punishable under Section 364 of the same Act. “That you, Hon. Chuma Nzeribe, sometime in 2005, at Abuja, within the Jurisdiction of this conourable court did use as genuine a document to wit: Re: Application for Statutory Right of Occupancy within the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja with reference Number MFCT/LA/FCT 1302 dated 18/06/03, bearing the name of Ramatu Alhassan and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 366 of the Penal Code Act Cap 532 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria (Abuja) and punishable under Section 364 of the same Act. “That you, Hon. Chuma Nzeribe sometime in 2007 at Abuja, within the jurisdiction of this honourable court, did cheat by personation, by representing yourself to be Ramatu Alhassan opposite Gwagwa Market AMAC, Gwagwa Village Abuja and thereby committed an office contrary to Section 321 of the Penal Code, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria (Abuja) 1990 and punishable under section 324 of the same Act.” Halilu Yusuf, the judge, had earlier fixed March 11 to deliver judgment on the case. However, the court proceeding for Friday was stalled because the former lawmaker was absent in court. Charles Ndukwe, counsel to Nzeribe, informed the judge that a family member of his client sent a letter that the former lawmaker was down with chronic hypertension. Ndukwe presented a letter from the Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu Teaching Hospital, which was dated March 10, on his client’s health status. The source of the letter stirred controversy as the judge directed that the defendant’s lawyer contact his client via phone to ascertain how long it would take him to recover. The defendant’s counsel was, however, not able to give a specific date. The judge thereafter fixed March 21 to deliver judgment and ordered that the defendant must be physically present at the next court sitting.