Seplat Energy Plc says it has awarded certificates to 214 teachers and six chief inspectors of education in Edo and Delta states after they concluded a three-month training in partnership with the Nigerian Petroleum Development Company (NPDC). This initiative is under the Seplat Teachers Empowerment Programme (STEP). According to a statement by the company, this is the second edition of the programme, which is aimed at improving the standard of education in Nigeria, especially Seplat Energy’s host states and communities. The STEP Certificate Awards Ceremony took place in Benin, Edo, alongside the Seplat Education Roundtable, which had educational experts and professionals in a panel session. “Over the years, Seplat Energy had made significant impacts with critical initiatives focused on providing quality education for states of its operations and the country,” the statement reads. “To consolidate its achievements on Sustainability Development Goal 4 for inclusive and equitable quality education, the Company introduced STEP, a customized training programme for secondary school teachers.” STEP is a three-month intensive training programme that equips teachers with tools to teach STEAM (science, technology, engineering, arts and mathematics). “The company introduced the STEAM model of learning to secondary schools in Delta and Edo States in order to promote creative thinking, allow for higher student engagement, and offer a well-rounded education,” the company said. According to Seplat, in September 2021, the 220 certificate awardees began their training with an initial five-day residential retreat. After that, they continued training via the e-Learning platform developed for the programme. In his keynote address, Fabian Ajogwu, an independent non-executive, said: “Education is a collective responsibility. What Seplat Energy is doing is noble and commendable. It is supported by both Edo and Delta state governments. “These states should be model states that should be emulated. Other corporates should also be invited to do the same. Spending on education gives us future returns than subsiding consumption. “Seplat Energy believes that empowering teachers is the first point to awakening education and education has a cost. What we have done is to take part of that cost. The Govt has a role to play as well as other organisations and stakeholders. “We should acknowledge this cost and invest in it. Education has a cost, and Seplat energy has written the cheque.” Philip Shaibu, Edo deputy governor, said: “Education via technology will promote children to be global competitors, and this can only happen through adequate knowledge of technology. I congratulate Seplat Energy on this initiative and Edo State will continue to partner with the company on education.” In her remarks, Joan Oviawe, commissioner for education, Edo state, said the state is thrilled to partner with Seplat Energy on education. “We are excited by what Seplat Energy is doing for teachers and thank the company for its CSR impact in the educational sector and other sectors. Edo state is taking the lead in technology intervention in education in Nigeria with initiatives like this and the EdoBEST programme,” Oviawe said.