The Chartered Institute of Personnel Management of Nigeria (CIPM) says it will activate regulatory measures against unfair labour practices. Olusegun Mojeed, CIPM president, said this at the recent opening ceremony of the 19th conference of the Lagos state branch of CIPM themed, “The Business, The People: Extending The Frontiers”. Mojeed described the theme of the conference as “apt and timely”, considering the raging conversation presently going on on Twitter concerning toxic businesses, bad bosses, entitled employees and bullying in general. Over the past couple of days, the Nigerian Twittersphere was agog with conversations about toxic workplaces with the hashtag #HorribleBosses. “It is high time we re-strategised. The old process of advocacy, strategic partnership, administrative expertise, etc needs some reworking,” the CIPM boss said. “We need to throw our heart into the matter by being hyper-responsive to people issues. People cannot be kept quiet for ever. “They are no longer willing to suffer in silence. I still believe that if we take care of our people, they will take care of our customers and the business.” The president said CIPM needed to urgently activate its regulatory arsenal. This, he said, should be done without fear or favour, with no consideration for the size or balance sheet of culpable organisations. “There is no doubt, this activism may result in loss of revenue for the Institute, this would be for a moment,” Mojeed said. “I’m positive that the goodwill and the emotional currency would go a long way in showcasing our stance that we abhor oppression and unfair labour practices. “For instance, I see us rejecting sponsorship from unrepentant organisations with bad bosses as a form of protest and distancing ourselves from such practises.” According to Mojeed, CIPM is willing to offer assistance to its colleagues and HR departments to handle known cases regarding entitlements of employees as well as encourage them to make use of the institute’s training, mentoring and counselling platforms and modules for their employees’ grooming and inculcating best practices.