Tukur Buratai, Nigeria’s ambassador to the Republic of Benin, has asked Nigerian youths not to make themselves “willing tools” for do-or-die politicians. Buratai said youths must remove every tenet that contributes to the deficiency of democracy in Nigeria. The former chief of army staff, in a post titled — Dynamism in Politics and Nigeria Founding Fathers — published on his verified Facebook page, said Nigerian youths must embrace what he termed as “political dynamism” to make the country’s democracy deliver dividends. The ambassador encouraged youths to actively participate in politics, adding that the youths suffer the most from bad governance. “My message to young people today is that they must not let themselves be used as willing tools by do-or-die politicians who want to stir up trouble in their communities,” Buratai said. “Instead, you must embrace the tenets of political dynamism and root out every factor that contributes to the democracy deficit in Nigeria, namely voter apathy, ballot snatching, looting, arson, and the likes. “You constitute a large percentage of our voting and working population. You are also going to be the number one population block that will suffer the consequences of bad governance and incompetent leaders in the future. “Therefore, you must do everything to safeguard your future survival and welfare in mind. Get actively involved in the democratic process by joining a political party and electing those who will lead you. Remember that voting is a civic duty expected of every Nigerian.” Buratai further encouraged youths to protect the “legacies” of President Muhammadu Buhari for future generations, saying the president has laid a “foundation for a new Nigeria”. “President Muhammadu Buhari has laid a foundation for a new Nigeria. Despite the myriad of challenges, he has kept faith with his vision and principles,” he added. “The youths must carry these visions and principles beyond this administration. The legacies must be protected for a greater Nigeria and formidable future generations.”