The joint action committee (JAC) of the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU) and Non-Academic Staff Union (NASU) have threatened to embark on a two-week strike if the federal government fails to meet their demands by March 27. Following a meeting to appraise the implementation of their demands, the unions said the government has refused to listen to their grievances. In a letter sent to Chris Ngige, minister of labour and employment, the unions complained that nothing came out of the ultimatum they issued and the demands made. The letter was jointly signed by Mohammed Ibrahim, national president of SSANU, and Peter Adeyemi, NASU general secretary. “In view of this, the Joint Action Committee (JAC) of NASU and SSANU arising from its meeting is hereby using this opportunity through your exalted office to give the Federal Government up to Sunday, 27th March, 2022 to do the needful in respect of our members’ agitations, failing which we would have no other option than to direct our members in the Universities and Inter university Centres in Nigeria to proceed on 2 weeks warning strike in the first instance to drive home demands of our members in the Universities and Inter-University Centres,” the letter reads in part. “The meeting was shocked that 2 weeks after giving the Federal Government an ultimatum nothing tangible has come out of it and that Government has not even acknowledged the letter with a response as expected. “Relating to this is our letter dated 1st March, 2022 in respect of same, in which nothing has come out of it despite the fact that JAC has given 21 days ultimatum to the Federal Government in respect of our members’ grievances and agitations on the non-implementation of the agreements.” Some of the issues raised by the unions include inconsistencies in IPPIS payment, non-payment of earned allowances and delay in the renegotiation of FGN/NASU and SSANU 2009 agreement, and non-payment of retirement benefits. Others are neglect and poor funding of universities, as well as non-constitution of visitation panels for tertiary institutions. The unions’ ultimatum is coming on the heels of the strike action embarked on by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU). ASUU had on February 14 declared a one-month warning strike, which was later extended by eight weeks.