Boss Mustapha, secretary to the government of the federation (SGF), says the security situation in Nigeria has improved. Mustapha said this on Thursday while delivering a keynote address in Kaduna, at an event with the theme, ‘Stakeholders Engagement on the Current Security Situation in the North-West’. He said insurgency in the north-east and threats of separatists in the south-east have reduced “considerably”., adding that over 30,000 insurgents alongside their families have so far surrendered. “The security situation has relatively improved across all parts of the country,” he said. “The threats of the separatists in the south-east and parts of south-south geo-political zones have reduced in traction. Our waters are now calm and we no longer receive reports of daily attacks by pirates. “Troops of operation Sharan Daji, in conjunction with personnel of the Nigeria Police Force and other intelligence/security and paramilitary agencies, have sustained an onslaught against the criminal elements.” He added that the federal government is concerned about the security challenges and has been working “assiduously” to reduce them to the barest minimum. Highlighting steps taken by federal government to improve security, he said “some of the measures include; increase in budgetary allocation as well as shoring up the equipment holding of the military and other security agencies”. He encouraged the public to collaborate with the government in order to tackle the menace of armed banditry and other related crimes in the country. “Similarly, approval was granted for the recruitment of 10,000 police personnel for three consecutive years, while their salaries have been upwardly reviewed to boost their morale, enhance productivity and elicit hard work,” he said. “With the recent dimensions of security challenges including human trafficking, baby factory syndrome, ritual killings and the like, the sanctity of human life has been called into question. “The perpetrators of the evil acts live among us and are our relatives. This highlights the need for the cooperation of the communities and the whole-of-society approach to tackle insecurity.”