President Muhammadu Buhari has commended the United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP) for its efforts and role in the fight against climate change and biodiversity loss. Buhari said this in a congratulatory message to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the UN body on Thursday in Nairobi, Kenya. He said UNEP has made climate and environmental action a global priority, adding that more needs to be done to achieve more success in the collective struggle. “As we celebrate the 50th anniversary of UNEP’s existence, we laud the efforts of UNEP and encourage broader action to overcome climate change, biodiversity, rising levels of pollution and waste being three major crises threatening our planet.” he said. “We thank UNEP for its role in reducing biodiversity loss and for being a major player in the global movement to slow deforestation and accelerate aforestation. “We recognize that restoring key ecosystems is crucial to help combat climate change and achieve sustainable development. “Therefore, by collaborating with partners such as UNEP, we believe that much more successes would be recorded as we journey in our collective struggle against climate change.” Buhari reiterated Nigeria’s net zero and emissions reduction commitment, saying the country will work with other countries in achieving the goals of the Paris agreement. “Nations are constantly facing the threats of disrupted weather patterns, low food production and rising sea levels that increase the risk of catastrophic flooding among other challenges,” he said. “In that regard, Nigeria pledged to work with other countries in achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement and in doing so has increased her conditional contribution to reduce greenhouse gas from 45 percent to 47 percent. “Additionally, I outlined Nigeria’s efforts and commitments towards transitioning to Net Zero ambition which involved both environment and development-related plans. “The plans contained a number of nature-based solutions, which included expansion of protected areas by creating ten additional National Parks, two Marine Protected Areas cutting across the various ecological zones of the country, and sustainable management of critical wetlands ecosystems across the country.”