A delegation from the house of representatives, on Thursday, arrived in Romania to supervise the evacuation of Nigerians fleeing from Ukraine amid the invasion by Russia. The delegation was led by Al-Hassan Ado Doguwa, the majority leader of the house. Nkem Anyata-Lafia, a media aide to Yusuf Buba, chairman of the house committee on foreign affairs who is a member of the delegation, disclosed the development in a statement. Anyata-Lafia said the delegation arrived in Romania on Thursday and were received by the officials of the Nigerian mission in the country. TheCable had reported how the lower legislative chamber passed a resolution and appointed Doguwa and Buba to leave for Ukraine to secure the evacuation. The lawmakers were scheduled to leave on February 25 for the oversight, but the trip was postponed. “The lawmakers, who departed the country yesterday after very close monitoring of the degenerating situation in the last few days through which they maintained close contacts with officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Nigerian Missions in Ukraine, Bucharest, Budapest, Warsaw, and other regional neighbouring countries to Ukraine, as well as the fleeing Nigerian nationals, were received on arrival by officials of the Nigerian Missions in the area,” the statement reads. “The delegation was subsequently led to meet with Nigerian evacuees who were already at the airport awaiting the first flight that would leave for Nigeria.” The house of representatives’ official Twitter handle also posted pictures of the legislators with Nigerians in Romania. @HouseNGR Majority Leader, Rep. @aadoguwa-, and the Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs, Rep. Yusuf Buba, with some Nigerian students in Romania preparatory to the evacuation of the students to Nigeria. pic.twitter.com/kgfNgrXx7f — House of Reps NGR (@HouseNGR) March 3, 2022  Meanwhile, the lawmakers have returned to Nigeria with the first batch of Nigerians evacuated from Ukraine. The first batch of Nigerian evacuees arrived in Abuja on Friday.