The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has described the national convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as a “celebration of illegality”. Debo Ologunagba, PDP’s national publicity secretary, said this in a statement issued on Sunday. He also tackled the APC over the choice of Abdullahi Adamu as national chairman, adding that the latter had questions to answer over his probe by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) in 2010. “The PDP describes the APC jamboree in the name of a national convention as a convention of lies, celebration of illegality, corruption, and arrogance in failure adding that any leadership birthed through such process can only be overtly corrupt, debauch and illegal,” he said. “It is clear that with the combination of the corrupt, deceitful, and rudderless Buhari-led APC government and the illegitimate Abdullahi Adamu-led party leadership, corruption, economic hardship and rudderlessness in the APC government will worsen in our country in the remaining one year of the APC in government. “The new APC chairman should inform Nigerians why he was not courageous enough to submit himself to trial at the Federal High Court, Lafia, Nasarawa state, rather than hide under technicalities. Senator Adamu should therefore come clean to Nigerians on the said case before parading himself as a saint. “It is therefore pathetic to see senator Adamu showboating on stage to impress his puppet master by attempting to denigrate other Nigerians and our great party, the PDP. “Our party has only pity for senator Adamu and does not intend to confer him an undue relevance with a response. Senator Adamu should, however, be conscious of the fact that time does not run against the state in criminal matters. He should therefore not have any illusion that being an APC chairman will avail him of a perpetual cover. “In any case, the PDP restates its cautions that the purported APC national working committee (NWC) does not have the legitimacy of office as the process that produced it under the caretaker/extraordinary convention planning committee (CECPC) remains unconstitutional and flawed. “The PDP cautions aspirants intending to participate in the 2023 general elections under the APC to note that they are on a journey to nowhere with the APC.”