About 23 people have been reportedly killed by gunmen in Mararaban Agban, Agban and Adan communities in Kaura LGA of Kaduna state. Several people were also said to have been injured and about 70 houses were reportedly razed by the invaders. A witness said in a telephone interview that the attacks took place around 7 pm on Sunday when the three communities were surrounded by the criminals. “They came around 7 pm and they divided themselves into three groups. One group attacked Mararaban Agban, the second group attacked Agban and the third group attacked Adan,” he said. “They mounted their machine guns and started unleashing mayhem on the villagers.” He said he visited the affected villages on Monday morning and counted 20 corpses, while three others died in the hospital following wounds they sustained from gunshots. “I just visited the three affected communities this morning– Mararaban Agban, Agban and Adan. They are neighbouring villages,” he said. “I can say that I counted 23 corpses including three of the victims who died in the hospital of wounds from gunshots. I also counted about 70 houses that were burnt. In Adan, the witness said the only structures left in the community at the moment are the community church, a primary school and two uncompleted buildings. “In Agban half of the houses were burnt. In Mararaban Agban, a few houses were burnt. One woman was macheted, all in all, I counted 14 corpses in Mararaban Agban, three of the corpses were still on fire. I saw six dead bodies, including a woman and her three children,” he said. “At Adan I did not see a dead body, but that is not to say no life was lost because I didn’t enter the bushes around the community.” He said last week, the gunmen attempted to attack the communities on two occasions, but were repelled. “Yesterday (Sunday), they came in their numbers, well armed, well coordinated and wrecked havoc on the villagers,” he said. When contacted, Mohammed Jalige, spokesman of Kaduna state police command, said he was yet to receive a report on the incident.