The implosion of violence claimed 5,067 Nigerian lives in 2021 alone and has rendered almost all parts of the country unsafe. The security challenge of the country has been a significant point of concern for President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration. Over the length of the security crisis, Buhari has employed varying tactics and threats and promises to put the situation under control, but it continues to escalate. Here is a timeline of the presidency’s responses to all the major attacks in recent years and how it has achieved little in arresting the situation. On December 11, 2020, with President Muhammadu Buhari present in Kastina, a gang of bandits invaded the Government Science Secondary School in Kankara LGA of the state. The assailants roved into the school compound on motorcycles, shooting sporadically into the air before abducting 344 students — with the president just 188km away. Buhari did not speak about the abduction until almost 24 hours later, when he issued a statement through Garba Shehu, the presidential spokesperson, condemning the “cowardly bandits’ attack on innocent children”. The students were released a couple of days later, and while preparing to address the released kids, Buhari expressed worry over the efforts of the security agencies in curbing insecurity. “Armed forces know their job. I meet them, we have security meetings from time to time, they must be very clear of my instructions, and their effort is not good enough for me,” he had said. “It is our responsibility to secure this country for all the citizens to do their businesses without any problem. We haven’t achieved that yet, but we will keep on trying.” On February 26, 2021, in Jangebe, a town in Talata-Mafara LGA of Zamfara state, 279 students of the Government Girls Secondary School in the area were abducted by bandits. The girls were freed on March 2 through the help of repentant bandits, according to the state government. Leading the federal government’s delegation to the state after the girls’ release, Hadi Sirika, minister of aviation, said the president promised that the incident would be the last school adoption the nation would witness under his administration. “This abduction of the female students in Jangebe will be the last as the federal government has reorganised the security architecture of the country to nib all the atrocities of these criminals,” the president was quoted as saying. But it wasn’t to be as just a few days later, on March 12, 2021, gunmen attacked the Federal College of Forestry Mechanisation, Afaka, Igabi LGA of Kaduna state, and abducted 29 students. The students were not released until May 5 – seven weeks later – after they were reportedly ransomed, courtesy of a pool of contributions from the victims’ parents. The president reacted to the news by pledging a “strong determination of his administration to ensure that Nigerians lived in a country where everyone can move where they want when they want without the fear of kidnapping and banditry”. On April 18, 2021, another group of bandits abducted students from Greenfield University, Kaduna. The assailants requested N800 million as ransom, and when their demands were not met early enough, they killed five of the students, further threatening to kill more. On May 5, after the students had spent weeks in the den of their kidnappers, Buhari switched tactics and appealed to the bandits “for the release of the students of the Greenfield University and all other citizens held in captivity”. The bandits sure did not heed his plea because another attack happened on July 8. Thirty-five people were killed when gunmen attacked five communities in Maradun LGA of Zamfara state. The gunmen were said to have invaded the communities on over 90 motorcycles — and also set houses ablaze. Buhari, expectedly, condemned the killing and demanded that security agencies “respond to the worrying situation in a language that the bandits understand”. He then informed Nigerians that “the military and other security agencies are now working on new methods and policies that are yielding good results in many of the troubled parts of the country and calls for a crushing response to the killing of innocent citizens in the rural communities”. At least 22 people were killed while 14 others sustained injuries when suspected hoodlums attacked buses conveying worshippers to Ondo state on August 14, 2021. The commuters were on their way from Bauchi, where they had attended an Islamic programme. Kankara kidnappings were supposed to be the last as promised by the government Reacting to the incident, Buhari described it as “wicked” while adding that security agents have been ordered to ensure justice is delivered swiftly. “Make no mistake about it: in line with my commitment to protect all Nigerians, I have ordered our security agencies to fish out the perpetrators of this gruesome massacre of innocent travellers and bring them to justice,” the president was quoted as saying. Not less than 23 travellers were killed when gunmen opened fire on a bus at Gidan Bawa village in Isa LGA of Sokoto state on December 8. Reacting to the incident in a statement signed by Femi Adesina, presidential spokesperson, Buhari called for the support of Nigerians in curbing the menace of the banditry. “I am very distressed at the manner of death visited on these hapless citizens who were undertaking a legitimate journey to another part of the country,” the president had said. “It shows that the evil this administration is confronting is one that requires the support and involvement of all Nigerians.” From the late evening of January 5 to the early hours of the following day, gunmen invaded about five communities in Bukkuyum and Anka LGAs of Zamfara state, killing over 200 villagers and setting many houses ablaze. Reacting, Buhari described the incident as an “act of desperation by mass murderers” who are “under relentless pressure” from the military. The president assured Zamfara residents that the army and the airforce are working together to track and eliminate the perpetrators. “The latest attacks on innocent people by the bandits is an act of desperation by mass murderers, now under relentless pressure from our military forces who are well equipped to effectively confront these enemies of humanity,” Buhari said. ‘I’LL TACKLE THIS MONSTER DECISIVELY’ On March 5, over 60 vigilantes were ambushed and killed by gunmen in some communities of Sakaba/Wassagu LGA of Kebbi state. According to a resident, “When they first came, they kidnapped people and stole cattle. The members of the community started shouting ‘thieves’ after the bandits had left, and the vigilantes immediately mobilised and went after the bandits to rescue the kidnapped victims and stolen cattle. “The bandits hid on treetops, and as the vigilantes arrived where they hid, the bandits opened fire on them.” Reacting, Buhari condemned the attack and promised to “do all it takes to tackle this monster decisively.” ‘WE’LL DEAL WITH THEM RUTHLESSLY’ Om Monday night, a daring gang of bandits ambushed a moving train while it was a few minutes away from the Kaduna station. According to Samuel Aruwan, Kaduna commissioner for internal security and home affairs, said 362 passengers boarded the train and eight of them have been confirmed dead. Victims who survived the attack said “the terrorists were moving about in the train” while adding that “they were many; they looked to be between the ages of 18 and 20.” In response, Buhari called an emergency meeting of the security chiefs and directed the “immediate conclusion” of the implementation of the integrated security surveillance and monitoring solution for the Abuja-Kaduna rail line. The president also called for the armed forces to “deal ruthlessly” with terrorists, urging them not to spare anyone unlawfully wielding the AK 47 weapon. With a track record of promises and threats that have obviously amounted to little in curbing the activities of these bandits, it’s unclear if this attack on the Abuja-Kaduna rail will spur a need for vigour in the presidency and security operatives and prove a watershed moment in the fight against insecurity. Many Nigerians will hope that the latest meeting with service chiefs will yield the renewed resolve needed to turn around the country’s security situation but the timeline of activities from the government shows that might be too much optimism.