The Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF) has described the Abuja-Kaduna train attack as “a horror dream”. The train was attacked by gunmen on Monday night while it was a few minutes away from the Kaduna station. About eight people were killed in the attack while many others were injured and several unaccounted for. Reacting to the incident, the forum, in a statement by Kayode Fayemi, its chairman, said the attack was one too many and must be stopped. The forum lamented that the spate of attacks questions the ability of governors to govern their states. The forum condoled with families of victims while assuring Nigerians that the country will surmount the problem and that the “ugly phase will pass”. “First, as leaders, we owe the victims and their relations an apology as these unwarranted acts of violence are becoming too regular and they basically question our collective capacity to govern,” the statement reads. “God will grant those that lost their lives eternal peace and a place in the deepest recesses of heaven. We wish those that were injured speedy recovery to resume their lives and put their heartless aggressors to shame. “If the intention of these murderers is to disrupt the peaceful coexistence of Nigerians, they will not succeed and when eventually total peace returns to the country, they will surely either be lifeless or excluded. I can assure you that this is an ugly phase in our national experience. It will certainly pass.” The forum commended the security forces for their “bravery” in curtailing the attack and also expressed their support and commitment to enhancing their operational strength. “While expressing our sincere condolences to Nigerians particularly the government and good people of Kaduna State, we want to salute the bravery of our security forces in curtailing the magnitude of havoc this attack was intended to visit on innocent travelers. Our prayers are with you,” it added. “We would continue to drum our support for the professional work you do and provide assistance in enhancing your operational strength and combat readiness. We recognize the enormous risk you take every day. “The cowards behind this will certainly not take over our country. Their violent demeanour will not result in anything positive instead it will confine them to an uncomfortable life in the jungle until the long arm of the law catches up with them.” The forum called on the authorities to immediately install all necessary safeguards to forestall future attacks on the country’s rail tracks, roads, ports, and borders. It also asked the security agencies to improve on intelligence-gathering. “We need not remind those concerned that these constitute a major backbone to our national assets,” it said. “We need to improve on security intelligence and ability to act on intelligence gathered. In general, we need to give comfort to all our citizens, residents, and investors that the security of lives and property can be taken for granted. And that there is a Government that is clearly in charge of what needs to be done.”