The Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF) says it will ensure state governments design and operationalise action plans to strengthen peace and security in the country. The forum had earlier warned that the spate of insecurity, political and economic uncertainties in the country may ground businesses if they are not promptly tackled. In a communique issued at the end of a meeting on Wednesday, the forum, again, expressed concern over the impact of insecurity on citizens’ safety, means of livelihood, and the exercise of the rights of Nigerians. “The Forum remains concerned about the impact of the state of insecurity on citizens’ safety, means of livelihood, and the exercise of the rights of Nigerians, particularly the right to life, right to movement, and ultimately the country’s socio-economic development,” the communique reads. “The Forum will consequently see that all States design and operationalize an action plan to strengthen inter-ministerial coordination on peace and security, including the establishment of peace-building agencies and a multi-level policing framework to combat the threat of insecurity in the country.” The governors also said they are committed to increasing budget provisions that target economic shocks in order to support vulnerable Nigerians. “The Forum received an update on the implementation of the World Bank Nigeria COVID-19 Action Recovery and Economic Stimulus (NG-CARES) programme – an emergency programme to support state-level response to and recovery from the COVID-induced socioeconomic crisis –from the Task Team Leader for the World Bank programme, Prof. Foluso Okunmadewa, in the company of the World Bank Country Director for Nigeria, Shubham Chaudhuri,” the forum said. “Governors in response conveyed their commitment to secure and increase budget provisions that target the economic and social shocks in their states including social transfers, basic services, and livelihood support to poor and vulnerable households; food security and safe functioning of food supply chains; and the recovery of micro and small business enterprises.” The forum also commended Nyesom Wike, governor of Rivers, for tackling oil bunkering in the Niger Delta.