Friends of Prof, a group, has unveiled the third edition of its March 8th Initiative, a project created in honour of Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo. The initiative is part of activities marking Osinbajo’s birthday — the vice-president clocked 65 on March 8. According to a statement signed by Nduka Enweliku, the project coordinator of the initiative, the 2022 edition will focus on funding business ideas of youth entrepreneurs. “Last year, the Friends of Prof, under the March 8th Initiative, identified and honoured health workers who exhibited compassion, diligence, hard work and professionalism in carrying out their duties in an extremely difficult time occasioned by the pandemic. Thirty-four health workers from across the country got a grant of N1 million each,” the statement reads. “This year’s edition will focus on entrepreneurship and education with a project titled: ‘Project 774’, designed to unearth promising and young entrepreneurs in all parts of the country for funding and promotion. “Staging a community focused Business Plan Competition, the initiative will task youths – all between the ages of 18 and 35 – on identifying the peculiar advantages of their resident local government areas and to present a clear proposal on business strategies to leverage the advantages and spark widespread growth. “Two winners from each council will get a grant of N100,000 to implement the ideas, a unique opportunity, perhaps the first of its kind, that promotes civic responsibility and an innovative approach to problem-solving, particularly at the local level. “Starting from the 8th of March until the 30th of March, applications are to be submitted on a dedicated website.” Interested youths can apply here. The group added that for its education and classroom project, it has “secured a partnership with leading Edutech and learning solutions company, Codextel Limited, to deploy its revolutionary product, ‘The Codex Learning Solution’, for the delivery of free, tailor-made, curriculum-based lessons on major subjects, including English and Mathematics, to schoolchildren across the country”.