The US census bureau says the COVID pandemic fuelled a population drop in 73% of US counties. Here are five updates about the pandemic this Friday. EU recommends AstraZeneca drug for COVID prevention The European Medicines Agency (EMA) has recommended the use of AstraZeneca’s antibody drug for preventing COVID-19 infections. The EMA said the drug, Evusheld, should be used in individuals above the age of 12 who were not exposed to the virus. Evusheld contains lab-made antibodies designed to linger in the body for months to contain the virus in case of an infection. It could be used for preventing infections in people whose immune system is too weak to respond to vaccines. South Korea gives emergency approval for adult use of Merck’s COVID pills South Korea’s has given emergency approval for the use of Merck COVID-19 treatment pill for adults. The pill, branded as Lagevrio, is the second oral antiviral to be authorised in South Korea after Pfizer Paxlovid. Lagevrio will only be allowed for patients who are aged 18 or older but cannot use injection medications and Paxlovid. COVID fuelled 2021 population drop in 73% of US counties, says census bureau The US census bureau says the COVID-19 pandemic caused a natural decrease in 2021 in the population of nearly three-quarters of US counties. The bureau data showed that more than 73 percent of US counties experienced a natural decrease, or an excess of deaths over births, up from 55.5 percent in 2020 and 45.5 percent in 2019. It also showed that the biggest loss, of 159,621 residents, was in Los Angeles county in California. “In 2021, fewer births, an aging population and increased mortality – intensified by the COVID-19 pandemic – contributed to a rise in natural decrease,” the bureau said in a statement. Singapore to end quarantine for vaccinated arrivals Singapore says it will end quarantine for vaccinated travellers from April 1. Lee Hsien Loong, the country’s prime minister, said in a speech on Thursday that the country will “drastically streamline” requirements for vaccinated arrivals as well as dropping a requirement to wear masks outdoors. A limit on group gatherings will also be increased to 10 people, from five, while most people working from home will be asked to return to the office. The changes, which also include the lifting of a ban on music performances, will take effect from March 29. Australia scraps pre-departure testing for arrivals Australian health authorities say pre-flight testing for arrivals will be scrapped under significant changes to living with the virus. Greg Hunt, the federal health minister, announced that international arrivals will no longer need to be tested for COVID-19 prior to travel after April 17. Hunt said international arrivals would still need to be fully vaccinated to enter Australia and wear masks on flights. He also announced the recommendation of a second booster shot for adults 65 years and over, indigenous Australians 50 years and over, as well as aged care and disability residents. The booster jab will become available from April 4 for the eligible groups at pharmacies, general practices, state, commonwealth and indigenous medical clinics.