Olatorera Majekodunmi-Oniru, an aspirant in the All Progressives Congress (APC), says she is ready to offer an effective representation to the people of Ogun Central senatorial district in 2023. In an interview with TheCable, on Friday, the 35-year-old politician said she is confident in winning the senatorial election. Ibikunle Amosun, a two-time governor, is currently the lawmaker representing the senatorial district at the national assembly. Majekodunmi-Oniru said she will deploy her experience in consulting for African leaders to introduce citizen-oriented initiatives at the national level. “I have been planning a foray into the upper chamber of the national assembly for many years. Similarly, I have been pushing my dreams for greater Nigeria through hard work and service to humanity for years,” she said. “I always knew I wanted to effectively and progressively represent great citizens of Ogun Central in advocating key policies that guarantee development, unity, peace and progress. “Ogun state has one of the highest potentials for rapid developments and I want to support the great work of our hardworking Governor Dapo Abiodun, by serving as the district’s most effective representation in the senate. “I am very confident in securing the Ogun Central senatorial ticket provided national expectations of free, fair and democratic primaries are met by the current administration. Every great leader who genuinely cares about the progress of our great nation, will stampede personal interest and wholly support my candidacy for senate, for Greater Nigeria. “The race is on. Interestingly, you ask about incumbent Senator Amosun but he has not declared any intentions whatsoever to return to the senate in 2023 and if he does, I am confident the great citizens of Ogun Central and the great leaders of the APC party would align with the candidate who strongly resonates with our challenges, who will do the most work and who absolutely has, without a doubt, the very best interest of Nigerians at heart.” Majekodunmi-Oniru noted that she would foster a united and inclusive form of governance where voices, needs and challenges of citizens are at the center of every decision emerging from the national assembly. The politician added that her key focus areas for policy development are highest quality education for every citizen, healthy food availability through the utilisation of agriculture for wealth building, infrastructural development and increased inclusions of women and youth in leadership.