Ado Doguwa, majority leader of the house of representatives, has asked the governors elected on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to “sit up” and secure their states. Doguwa made the comment on the floor of the lower legislative chamber on Wednesday. The legislator was responding to a contribution made by Ndudi Elumelu, the minority leader of the house. Elumelu, a lawmaker from Delta state, had said insecurity increased when the All Progressives Congress (APC) took over the reins of power. The PDP lawmaker was contributing to a motion sponsored by Ben Igbakpa on the need to address insecurity and abduction in Anambra. “Since the APC-led government came into power, they have been an increase in brutalising of Nigerians in making sure that our people who should be on the farm to produce food do have the opportunity to do that,” he said. Reacting, Doguwa who is an APC member from Kano said Abdullahi Ganduje, his state governor, has been able to maintain peace. “It is in our national interest to remind the government that the interest of government is about the protection of lives and property of the people and citizenry,” he said. “But while we lend our support for the motion, I find no reason when someone will rise and get out of the course and begin to malign or cast aspersions on a government that has done so wonderfully well about the security of life of the people. “l want to remind the minority leader that we are running a federal democracy. We have the federating unit. Of course, every federating unit has its constitutional responsibility. “But I want to believe even the state governors in the south do have the same responsibility to protect the lives and property of the people they govern. Whether you control the police or not, I assume the governors are the chief security officer of their respective states. “The business of security should not, therefore, be seen specifically as if it is vested only in the hands of the president. What are your (PDP) governors doing in your state? “Despite the huge population of citizens in Kano, every Kano man courtesy of governor Ganduje sleeps with his two eyes closed. Tell your governors to sit up. The PDP governors should make sure that they provide security for the lives and property of the people in their state.”