Rangers recorded one of the two away wins in matchday 18 of the 2021/22  Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) as Lobi Stars sacked Eddy Dombraye after the club lost at home to Abia Warriors in Makurdi. Lobi stars 1-2 Abia Warriors Valentine Odoh was Abia Warriors’ hero as his brace helped the Imama Amakapabo’s boys to a 2-1 victory over Lobi Stars. Solomon Kwambe, however, scored a consolidation goal for Dombraye’s team. In a swift reaction to the defeat, Lobi Star announced the dissolution of its technical crew. “Aftermath of the home defeat by Abia Warriors. The Vice Chairman of Lobi Stars FC has just announced the dissolution of the technical crew,”  a short statement on its Facebook page read. But when contacted by TheCable, the former Nigerian international said he is yet to be informed officially by the Makurdi-based side that he has been sacked. “I just read about my sack on social media but nothing has been confirmed to me officially by the club management,” Dombraye said. Akwa United 0-3 Rangers Int’l Rangers international enjoyed an emphatic away win after they outplayed Akwa United 3-0 at the Godswill Akpabio stadium in Uyo. Samuel Pam, Chidiebere Nwobodo, and Shedrack Asiegbu’s 55th, 70th, and 90th minutes goals respectively gave the away team all the points. Sunshine Stars 2-1 Dakkada Dakkada lost for the tenth time this season as they were beaten 2-1 by Sunshine Stars at Akure stadium. Kwara United 2-1 Heartland Despite Chukwudi Nworgu’s consolatory goal for the visitors, Ayodeji Bamidele and Alao Danbani’s goals helped Kwara United to defeat Heartland. Nasarawa Utd 1-1 MFM FC It was a 1-1 draw in Lafia between the home side and MFM. Gombe 0-0 Rivers Utd It was a goalless affair between Gombe and Rivers United in Bauchi. Katsina 1-0 Wikki Tourists Habibu Yakubu’s 17th-minute goal was all Katsina United needed to run away with all three points at against Wikki Tourists at the Muhammadu Dikko Stadium. Shooting Stars 1-0 Kano Pillars Uche Ezeala’s 13th-minute strike was all Oluyole Warriors needed to claim all points against visiting Kano Pillars at the Adamasingba Stadium, Ibadan. Enyimba 1-1 Plateau United Enyimba, 8-time NPFL champions, failed to record a victory at home for the first time against Plateau United as they drew 1-1 at the Aba Stadium on Saturday. Niger Tornadoes 1-0 Remo Stars Musa Wakili’s 4th-minute goal from the penalty spot for Niger Tornadoes was all the Ikon Allah Boys needed to secure all three points against Remo Stars.