Ike Ekweremadu, former deputy president of the senate, says he will contest the 2023 governorship election in Enugu state. The lawmaker representing Enugu west senatorial district announced his governorship ambition at a media briefing on Friday in Enugu. There is a debate in the south-east state about rotating the governorship to Enugu east after the tenure of Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, governor of Enugu, who is from Enugu north. But Ekweremadu described the zoning arrangement as a “treachery of politics”, adding that there is no such in the state. The legislator, who has been in the senate since 2003, said he served as deputy senate president in the sixth, seventh and eighth assemblies not out of zoning, but because he enjoyed popular support. “I challenge any person, who said there is zoning in Enugu politics, to say where and when it was discussed and agreed in the state,” he said. “Some people, when they want to benefit from a political position, they go ahead and talk of zoning because they have someone in mind. It is treachery of politics. “Some people have also accused me of being a product of zoning. I was never a product of zoning, and if there was zoning, I won’t be in the senate five times. I had always contested and my people, during those days, gave me these opportunities. “The position I occupied as deputy president of senate was not out of zoning. When David Mark became senate president, he wanted someone he could work with and he nominated me.” The senator said Enugu east has produced three governors, including the late Chukwuma Onoh, Jim Nwobodo, and Chimaroke Nnamani, while Enugu north has produced two governors, Okwesilieze Nwodo and Ugwuanyi, the incumbent governor. “But Enugu west has only produced one governor in the person of Sullivan Chime. So, where is the equity? Where is the justice?” he asked. “I don’t want to be a zonal governor. I want to be governor of Enugu state. That’s why I don’t want to get involved in he argument of zoning. Those interested in zoning have ulterior motives.”