The National Judicial Council (NJC) says it has issued warning letters to two judges over misconduct in the discharge of their duties. In a statement issued on Wednesday, Soji Oye, NJC spokesperson, said the council reached its decision at its 97th meeting held on March 15 and 16, 2022. Muawiyah Baba Idris, judge of a federal capital territory high court, was placed on the council’s watch list for one year. The judge was reprimanded for signing the writ of possession for execution on the same day he delivered judgement in Suit No. FCT/HC/CV/FT/36/19 between Sicons Nigeria Ltd and Nile Place Restaurant and Catering Services Ltd. “The suit was for recovery of demised property,” Oye said. “Council agreed with the findings of the committee that investigated the Hon. judge that his action was in contravention of Proviso to Order 27 Rule (16) (b) High Court of the Federal Capital Territory Civil Procedure Rules 2018 and Order 4 (1) and (2) of the Judgement Enforcement Rules 2004. “Council also resolved to issue a warning letter to Hon. Justice M. M. Ladan of the high court of Kaduna state having found merit in the petition written against him in suit No. KDH/KAD/1321/2018 between VTLS Inc. Vs Ahmadu Bello University. “He signed the writ of attachment while the garnishee order nisi was pending.” At the meeting presided over by Ibrahim Muhammad, chief justice of Nigeria (CJN), the council also recommended 15 successful candidates as heads of courts and other judicial officers in Nigeria. They include: 1. Chief judge, Plateau state
i) David Gwong Mann 2. Chief judge, Gombe state
i) Joseph Ahmed Awak 3. Grand kadi, sharia court of appeal, Kaduna state
i) Abdurrahman Umar Abubakar 4. Grand kadi, sharia court of appeal, Taraba state
i) Kadi Shuaibu Dahiru Ahmad 5. President, customary court of appeal, Rvers state
i) Ihemnacho Wilfred Obuzor 6. President, customary court of appeal, Cross River state
i) Sampson Mbeh Anjor 7. Judges, federal high court
i) Bala Khalifa-Mohammed Usman
ii) Emmanuel Gakko
iii) Aminu Garba
iv) Musa Sulaiman Liman
v) Ahmad Gama Mahmud
vi) Segun-Bello Mabel Taiye
8. Judge, FCF high court, Abuja
i) Joseph Adebayo Aina 9. Kadi, sharia court of appeal, Taraba state
i) Sallau Ismaila Madugu 10. Judge, customary court of appeal, Taraba
i) Bulus Samuelson Nyiputen The recommended candidates are expected to be sworn in after approval by President Muhammadu Buhari, their respective state governors and confirmation by the national assembly and the state houses of assembly.