The All Farmers Association of Nigeria (AFAN) has commended the federal government’s ban on foreigners’ direct purchase of agricultural produce. The federal executive council (FEC) had on Wednesday approved a memo banning foreigners and their agents from purchasing agricultural commodities at the farm gate. In a statement on Saturday, Muhammed Magaji, AFAN national publicity secretary, said the ban would protect farmers from being shortchanged and compel foreign nationals to go through licensed local agents to conduct business. He said the government’s position had been the desire of association over the years. Magaji also said the ban would help to solve myriads of issues affecting food sufficiency in the country, as well as block wastages of resources which contributed to losses faced by farmers. “As you are all aware. the federal government has banned any direct purchase of farm produce involving indigenous farmers, and foreign nationals, this has been the position of our great association,” the statement reads. “This stand was taken to protect our farmers from being short-changed and therefore direct all foreign nationals to go through license locals to do business with our cherished members (the farmers). “In view of this, the All Farmers Association of Nigeria (AFAN), wishes to appreciate the Federal Government for banning any direct purchase of farm produce involving indigenous farmers and foreign nationals.” Magaji asked the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to support the association with loans to prevent farmers from falling prey to foreign entreaties and further boost food security. “While appreciating this proactive step which is to boost food security, protect our farmers and enhance agricultural activities in the country, the AFAN is seeking for an intervention of the federal government through the Central Bank of Nigeria/ Bank of Agriculture to avail our members with harvest loans to enable harvest their crops with ease without being forced to dispose their produce to these foreign nationals out of scarcity of funds at the period of harvest,” he said. ”Our great association is in full support of the federal government’s position and I call on all the state chairmen nationwide to ensure strict compliance of this directive.”