Gboyega Oyetola, governor of Osun, has urged the electorate in the state not to allow those he described as “kindergarten politicians” to deceive them ahead of the July 16 governorship election. According to NAN, Oyetola spoke during an engagement programme with the All Farmers Association of Nigeria (AFAN) in Odo-Otin LGA of the state on Sunday. The governor was represented at the event by Olatunbosun Oyintiloye, his special assistant on civic engagement. Oyetola urged the electorate not to be deceived by “untested politicians whose aims are to destroy the gains the state had achieved in the last few years”. According to him, the business of governance is not meant for the novice but the intelligent. He said residents could testify to the progress and development his administration had brought to the state in the past three years. The governor, who said some politicians would soon be all out with “campaigns of deceit”, urged the electorate to remember that he had not failed them since the inception of his administration. “Election is fast approaching, and I want to appeal to the electorate not to allow inexperienced politicians to deceive them with fake promises,” he said. “We have been together going to four years now, and you can testify to the fact that I have not failed in any of my promises to you. “You know me, and I know you. Let’s join hands together to win the forthcoming gubernatorial election for me, and like before, you will not be disappointed.” The governor said his administration would continue to support the farmers with necessary farm inputs and implements. Oyetold said his government had set aside 1000 hectares of land for farming to boost food sufficiency and make the state the food basket of the south-west zone. He said a large part of the land, located in Ife south and Ifon-Osun in Orolu LGA, had been ploughed and that more than 200 farmers benefitted from it. The initiative, according to him, is to rejuvenate the agricultural sector by making it more attractive and productive to farmers, particularly the young ones. The governor said such good gestures and more would come for the farmers if re-elected. In his remark, Popoola Akolawole, AFAN chairman in the area, commended the governor for his support for farmers in the state. Akolawole urged the government to continue supporting the farmers with the necessary farm inputs, adding that they were also ready to support him in the coming election.