Some Nigerian players were remarkable as TheCable picks the best eleven from the weekend’s football actions across the globe. Maduka Okoye – Sparta Rotterdam The young Nigerian put on an outstanding performance that helped Sparta Rotterdam move off the bottom of the table with a 1-0 victory over Go Ahead Eagles in Het Kasteel. Never afraid of coming off his line and always acted with confidence and determination. Assured. Calvin Bassey – Rangers Bassey hardly looked out of place in the cup win at Dundee. He also never allowed the opposition a minute’s respite, driving his team forward and the opposition backward with real authority. Glowing. Semi Ajayi – West Bromwich Albion The Arsenal graduate played at ease and provided an assist. He knew exactly what the opposition was going to do. Also added menace upfield. Inflammable. Tosin Adarabioyo – Fulham Never allowed the opposition any space to exploit Fulham’s territory and was dominant. Pacey and commanding throughout, he also made several significant interceptions. Cauterising. Olisa Ndah – Orlando Pirates Another faultless performance. Always threatening and looked sharp all through the encounter. Incinerating. Innocent Bonke – Lorient Bonke completely bossed the midfield, never stopped running throughout, and was always ready to take the ball off the opposition and start another attack. Blistering. Tosin Kehinde – Randers The Manchester United product was all over the pitch and caused problems for Silkeborg. It was no surprise that he bagged the opener. Anthony Nwakaeme – Trabzonspor It was as if the real Nwakaeme has been reincarnated, as the Nigerian caused problems with his marvellous assist and goal for Trabzonspor. Also caused a lot of problems with several long-distance attempts. Luminosity. Cyriel Dessers – Feyenoord Dessers menaced and worked hard in the win at Zwolle. He also complimented his hard work with a goal that proved to be the winner. Radiant. Sadiq Umar – Almeria Played well and set up several chances before scoring a double in the six-goal thriller against Lugo. Effective. Victor Osimhen – Napoli The youngster was man of the match and a breath of fresh air, switching positions to confuse the hosts. It certainly worked as he caused Hellas Verona real problems and scored a brace. Scorching.