The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), along with stakeholders in the education sector, civil society organisations, and the media have reviewed a draft policy on sexual harassment in academic institutions. According to a statement by Azuka Ogugua, ICPC spokesman, speaking at the meeting, Bolaji Owasanoye, the commission’s chairman, said section 19 of the ICPC Act criminalises the use of public office for corrupt or undue advantage. “Sexual favour falls under the category of ‘benefit’. When a person in the position of power or authority uses such power irresponsibly by demanding sexual gratification, it is an abuse of power under the ICPC act,” he said. “The commission has successfully proved in court that sexual harassment is an abuse of power where the perpetrator abuses his position and advantage to demand and at times obtain sexual gratification from the victim. “Indeed, the commission has in the case of FRN vs Richard Akindele established that mere demand for gratification is an offence which the Commission can and will prosecute.” Owasanoye said as part of measures to address the growing problem of sexual harassment, the commission with the support of the Ford Foundation, had initiated a project focusing on its mandate of enforcement, prevention, and public education. “The commission is by this project improving its ability to respond to myriad cases of sexual harassment via abuse of power especially with regard to educational institutions most notably tertiary and secondary education institutions,” he said. “This is not to suggest that sexual harassment does not exist in other areas of society but the situation with educational institutions can be rightly described as epidemic.” Owasanoye also told the stakeholders that the promotion of sexual harassment policies in educational institutions was in fulfilling the commission’s prevention mandate. “The intention is to encourage educational institutions to introduce polices that will guide all stakeholders in their institutions on how to diminish and hopefully prevent sexual harassment and where it happens how to respond in the interest of all concerned,” he said.