Funke Oshonaike, the table tennis star, has recounted her ordeal in two abusive romantic relationships. The former African champion shared her story while weighing in on the death of Osinachi Nwachukwu, the gospel singer who was allegedly a victim of domestic violence. In a post on her official Facebook page on Wednesday, Oshonaike narrated how she was “physically, emotionally and mentally abused by two different men”. She said the first abuser was her partner when she was younger, adding that he “didn’t only abuse me, but carted away with all my money and my properties”. The ITTF ‘Club 7’ inductee revealed the second abuser to be her ex-husband, who she claimed “even beat me in front of my daddy and even in front of my pastor”. Oshonaike added that she was patient “for more than 10 yrs with my ex, but he never changed”. The tennis player advised people in abusive relationships to leave while they still can. “I didn’t sleep well at all because of what I’ve been reading about Osinachi, the gospel musician that was physically abused by her husband until she lost her life !! I can’t even believe that some of you could have the guts to still be talking bad about her even In Her grave, especially you Nigerian women,” Oshonaike wrote. “Have you been physically abused before? If you’ve not been, then you don’t have any idea of what physically abused women are going through, so you have no moral right to abuse them or talk about them anyhow. What they need from you is your words of encouragement, your help and your prayers. I’ve been physically, emotionally and mentally abused by two different men and I know how it fell. “The first one was at a younger age. He didn’t only abuse me but carted away with all my money and my properties, I mean all that I worked for as a young girl. He dealt with me! I was his mugun, it was like I was charmed because all that I had was on his name !! I had to run away from him with the advice of some wonderful people around me and the advice the police gave to me. I had to start my life back when I came back from Atlanta 96. He was still waiting for me to come to give him all I earned! But God delivered me from his wicked hands. Oh how much I suffered !! I was living in bondage! I was his slave. “The second was with my ex-husband. A good and kind man, but not a good husband to me. His own problem was his background. That’s what he saw growing up, so he didn’t know any other way to deal with an argument than to raise his hands. My parents, friends, loved ones, pastor, and the church couldn’t help me. They all told me he will change, or I should change from my ways, I should pray and fast for him, I should be patient etc but not to leave. Do you know that he even beat me in front of my daddy and even in front of my pastor? “This picture was taken the last time he laid his filthy hands on me, I took a knife to kill him, but I had to quickly drop the knife, took a picture of me and ran to the police. That was the last time to touched me because he was warned by the police that if he ever touched me again, he will be seriously punished and he won’t come near me and my kids again. “I guess you superwomen on social media will ask me why I didn’t flee on time. I couldn’t because I wanted my marriage to work! I couldn’t because of his good other side, I couldn’t because of people around me, I couldn’t because I was helpless, I couldn’t because of you all out there, I just couldn’t because I was not only physically abused, but also mentally, and emotionally abused. I was totally lost. I was not a superwoman like you. “So my beautiful women out there that’s going through an abusive relationship or marriage, please I understand what you are going through. I know how hard it’s for you. Pls be strong right now and flee. Love yourself enough to know that you’re stronger, you will be fine. No man has the right to lay his filthy hands on you. Please I beg you, go away from him now! Let him go and sort himself out by going for therapy or deliverance. “I was lucky to have survived 2 different abusive relationships, you might not! I had the patience for more than 10 yrs with my ex but he never changed. I guess I should be blamed for that because I encouraged that for a long time. I was afraid of how to start my life all over again with my 2 kids. It was very hard for me from the beginning with all the expenses but I am happier today because I left.” Oshonaike said she will reveal more about her ordeal in abusive relationships in an upcoming autobiography.