Nicholas Felix, a 40-year-old presidential hopeful, says the N100 million nomination forms of the All Progressives Congress (APC) cannot stop him from pursuing his ambition. The party had released its primary election timetable ahead of the elections, while it also announced the fees for the nomination forms — presidential hopefuls are expected to pay N100 million, while those for governorship will pay N50 million. Speaking on Saturday in Lagos state when he formally declared his interest to contest the presidency, Felix said Nigeria needs a vibrant youth who will bring in fresh ideas into governance of the country. Felix, who was presidential candidate of the Peoples Coalition Party (PCP), came third in the 2019 election after President Muhammadu Buhari and Atiku Abubakar. “I didn’t expect it to be this expensive, but I later got different views about it. If the purpose of the high cost of the form is to scare the youth, I will not be scared,” Felix said. “In fact, by next week, I will purchase the form. It is time for a youth to come on board and do something differently. Nigerians have been yearning for a young leader and the time is now. “To achieve the Nigeria of our dreams, Nigeria needs someone with my pedigree, required knowledge, vibrance and skill. “I am in the race to change the Nigerian narrative through the support of the not-too-young-to-run law, promising to bring more young professionals home and abroad together to contribute to the development of our great nation. “Mark my words compatriots, we will never betray your trust and the social contract that will exist between us, and in the first 100 days, we will fight insecurity with every force and might. “We will strengthen the confidence and glory of our men in uniform who pay the ultimate price to keep us safe.” Reeling out his seven-point agenda, Felix said as a young aspirant in the APC, he is not scared of big-wigs in the party. The US-based cleric said Nigerians would wake up to a big shock on how the 2023 general elections would come out.