The Nigerian chapter of the International Facility Management Association (IFMA) has commended President Muhammadu Buhari for signing executive order 11 on national public buildings maintenance. Buhari had, on Wednesday, signed the new executive order which mandates all ministries, departments and agencies of government (MDAs) to set up maintenance departments. In a statement, Segun Adebayo, president of IFMA Nigeria, expressed his delight at the assent, describing the executive order as “long overdue.” “As we earnestly looking forward to the implementation of the provisions of the new order, through the setting up of maintenance department in MDAs, our association is committed to collaborating with the federal government through relevant ministry to provide required capacity building and knowledge development,” Adebayo said. “As an association, we have been advocating the integration of sustainable practices into the built environment and this has started yielding the desired results. “We would also want to appreciate the Honorable Minister of Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Raji Fashola, SAN for this feat because his efforts in the ministry have yielded phenomenal results and it would positively impact the various projects that this administration has embarked upon.” Adebayo said IFMA has always strategically aligned with other institutions in the areas of capacity building; research and development; mentorship and partnership. He said the current council has engaged both the private and public sector stakeholders to play up the relevance of the profession in the built environment in a complementary way. Adebayo said the executive order emphasised the commitment of the federal government to establishing a sustained maintenance programme to optimize the enormous investment in public infrastructure. According to him, the government is determined to provide sustainable employment, job opportunities for large, small, and medium-sized businesses, artisans, and persons with vocational skills. This, he said, would ensure that public assets are maintained at a minimal cost. “The Department of Federal Public Assets Maintenance will oversee the coordination, implementation, management, and maintenance of federal public assets, facilities, and premises across Nigeria,” Adebayo added. “The agency will conduct a maintenance needs assessment, development of maintenance plan, and the necessary procurement. “The agency will monitor the outsourced facility management services of all public buildings and likewise, establish a comprehensive database of all public buildings and facilities. “Public buildings will also be modified to accommodate the special needs of persons living with disabilities while ensuring that all buildings would be able to operate at optimal capacity.”