A group known as the Citizens Network for Peace and Development (CNPD) says the All Progressives Congress (APC) will lose the presidency in 2023 if former President Goodluck Jonathan is not the flagbearer of the ruling party. Addressing a press conference in Abuja on Monday, Okorie Raphael, CNPD national coordinator, said Jonathan’s “acceptance” would enable APC to win the general election. Raphael said the comeback of the former president would provide a favourable environment for national engagement and dialogue. “President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan reflects national acceptance that will give impetus to APC’s victory in 2023 elections. As vanguards for Nigeria’s development, peace and unity, we want to reiterate that our beloved country cannot afford to have a regional champion as a flagbearer,” the coordinator said. “It is a thing of pride that a man of the calibre of Dr Abdullahi Adamu is the national chairman of APC. A man that has never lost an election, a man of strong character, a disciplined and astute administrator, a firm and focused leader and the man whose emergence further strengthened the party without a single defection as predicted by prophets of doom. “Therefore, it is imperative that Dr Aadmu will use the best man for the job to win this election bearing in mind that anything short of a GEJ ticket will cost APC the presidency in 2023.” Raphael said the national working committee (NWC) of the APC should provide a level playing field for Jonathan should he declare his interest to run. “We want to remind the party that its ultimate responsibility is to ensure that the party fills the best candidate that can win the election. The party needs an asset rather than a liability. Jonathan’s political credentials will increase the chance of APC winning the presidential elections in 2023,” he said. “We call on our father, the father of the nation, President Muhammadu Buhari, to endorse the Jonathan project because of his experience and the need for continuity. The two enjoy the most cordial relationship that had ever existed between an incumbent and his immediate predecessor. “We strongly call on President Jonathan to listen to the numerous calls and observe the political mood across Nigeria to contest the 2023 election.” Despite calls from various groups, Jonathan is yet to declare his presidential bid.