Foremost telecommunications company, Globacom, has rewarded its business dealers with special incentives worth over N750 million. The chairman of the company, Mike Adenuga, Jr., said at the 2022 dealer appreciation gala dinner held at the Eko Hotels and suites, Victoria Island, Lagos, that the company values its dealers who have,  over the years, shown commitment and hard work The mouth-watering prizes were in different categories ranging from cash prizes, in form of credit notes running into millions of naira, to other huge incentives. Dr. Adenuga who was represented by the Retail and Consumer Sales Chief, Mr. Ken Ogujiofor, said the special incentives package worth over N750m was to encourage the dealers to redouble their efforts towards helping achieve the business goals of the network. Mr Ogujiofor further disclosed that the event is in continuation of Glo’s tradition of rewarding and upholding excellence among its  treasured business associates. “We are delighted to note that the reward programme was a huge success, with many of our partners achieving and surpassing the target bands set for the two categories; volume push and activations,” he said. Mr. Remi Makinde of Globacom’s Network Implementation Group in his presentation pointed out that the company’s Network Quality Enhancement plan had greatly enhanced the network’s quality. Mr. Viju Unnithan of Marketing Department, noted that the company was committed to enhancing customer satisfaction and that the company’s products and services were designed to add value to Glo subscribers. Business associates who were delighted by the special rewards gave kudos to Globacom’s Board and management for the unprecedented gesture. One of them, Mr Tochukwu Nwosu, whose company, Zeph Associates, clinched three top prizes among the category one dealers enthused: “Globacom has delighted its trade partners tonight and on behalf of my fellow dealers, we say thank you to Globacom”. His colleague, the Managing Director of Yarab Integrated Limited, Alhaji Mobolaji Abdulrasaq, equally expressed appreciation to Globacom, saying, “We will continue to work towards the progress of the company. Kudos to Glo.” Chief Edward Emeano, CEO of Alenssar Infinity Communication, also lauded Globacom for its unique style of appreciating business partners. “Globacom has showed its true appreciation of our efforts in marketing the company’s products and services and we are truly grateful”, he said. The special rewards gala was spiced with good music and comedy by top musicians and comedians including juju maestro, King Sunny Ade (KSA) and his African beats, the Groove Band as well as the duo of Godwin Komone, aka Gordons, and MC Forever. “This email, together with any attachments, is for the exclusive and confidential use of the address(es) and may contain legally privileged information. Any other distribution, use or reproduction without the sender’s prior consent is unauthorized and strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error, please notify the sender by email immediately and delete this message from your computer without making any copies. Globacom is a Limited Liability Company with registration number 439916 and address at Mike Adenuga Towers, 1 Mike Adenuga Close, Off Adeola Odeku, Victoria Island, Lagos, Nigeria. Globacom Limited is registered to deliver Telecommunications services.”