Zainab Ahmed, minister of finance, budget and national planning, says the federal government has released N157 billion to fund the second Niger bridge project. Ahmed said this during the inspection of the work progress of the project on Saturday. Her visit is coming barely three weeks after a team of top government officials inspected the pace of work on the project. Speaking shortly after the inspection, the finance minister described the second Niger bridge as a significant project for the federal government. She said the work progress was commendable and would have a huge developmental impact on the lives of Nigerians. “Today is a very significant day in the construction circle of the second Niger bridge, this is one of the most iconic projects in the country cost at an initial contract cost of N206 billion,” she said. “Today, we have been able to fund this project with N157 billion, and I’m here to see where all this money is going. “And also, the significance of today is that the two ends of the bridge are being put together and this is the final phase of the work in truly competing for the project and the finishing work of the bridge. “So technically, I can report to Mr President that I have seen where all the N157 billion has gone to. “This is a project that is very dear to the President and it is designed to uplift the lives and livelihood of the people of the South-East and other parts of the country and we do hope that when this project comes on stream, it will ease traffic, will enhance commercial activities and improve the lives of the people of the state. “And also, I am happy to see the ladies I am seeing at the construction site, not all men. Julius Berger has brought some very unique innovations in the construction of this project and I want to on behalf of the government and people of Nigeria applaud the skills of the construction workers that have been working on this site.” Ahmed said the project created about 20,000 jobs at the construction site. “This project has been going on 24/7 and people are working in shifts and people that are working within here are within the surrounding states. Jobs have been created up to about 20,000 people are working on this project,” she added. Also speaking, Uche Orji, NSIA managing director, said more assessment is still being carried out to compensate those that will still be affected as the project progresses. “Regarding compensation, this is an ongoing affair, we ‘ve paid significant sums earlier, and there are still some more compensations to be made to some areas as we continue work,” Orji said. “As you can see, the bridge itself is 11.9 kilometres, there are still 17 kilometres of road on this side and the Asaba end of the road that will be paid. “Assessment is still being made for compensation but I can assure you that the directive we have from the president and the minister and our board is that adequate compensation is paid to everyone who is affected.” Commenting on the project, Farouk Gumel, NSIA chairman, said: “The Board is pleased with the quality and pace of work. Undoubtedly, the 2nd Niger Bridge is a vital piece of national infrastructure. At completion, we expect that it will serve as an enabler to cross-regional economic activities and stimulate growth on a national scale”.