Rauf Aregbesola, minister of interior, says the federal government is working out modalities on armed escort for firemen on assignment to deter attacks by miscreants. Aregbesola spoke during a two-day fire safety conference in Lagos. He was represented by Samson Karebo, acting controller-general of the Federal Fire Service. “There is the unique challenge of touts and miscreants attacking firemen and their equipment in a fire scene,” he said. “This is deplorable. We are working out modalities for armed escort for firemen on assignment to deter these undesirable elements. The minister said the government has procured DG54 aerial platform fire fighting truck with 54 metres height capacity to reach the 18th floor of high-rise buildings. “It is stationed in Lagos where we have the largest concentration of high rise buildings in Nigeria,” he said. “We are also working with the Nigeria air force to be able to deploy planes for aerial fire bombing of bushfires, high rise buildings or other wildfires requiring aerial attacks. Between 2015 and 2020, the federal government provided 106 modern firefighting trucks to the FSS. “Last year, the federal executive council also approved infrastructure upgrade comprising of 44 firefighting engines, 15 water tankers, 15 rapid intervention fire engines (not conventional ones) that can go into the nooks and crannies to respond to distress-calls and 20 basic life support ambulances.” Speaking earlier, Adejola Jumade, chief executive officer of Surveillant Fire Limited, asked the government to pay more attention to the fire safety measures to forestall casualties. Jumade said globally, there have been several cases of tall-building casualties which raise a concern as regards how prepared the country is for such eventualities. He said preparedness starts with design and enforcement of regulations. He said: “When you talk of disaster, the first thing is design. What are the steps we take to ensure that the design we have for tall buildings are tailored towards safety?” “Aside that, government agencies like physical and urban planning need to ensure that mechanical and electrical design are look into critically to ensure that the fire design they have tailor to curtain fire in case of any issue. “Honestly speaking, the fire fighters are trying their best with limited capacity and facility they have. The local, state and federal agencies need to work together to ensure that people that need to follow regulations. Interagency rivalry need to stop; we need serious collaboration.” Also speaking, Margaret Adeseye, director of Lagos State Fire and Rescue Service, appealed to Nigerians to be conscious of things that can trigger fire outbreak. She also asked the people to stop attacking fire fighters and be more understanding. “To tackle some of thsee challenges, the state government have commenced the renovation of 16 fire service stations with construction of addition five fire service stations,” she said. “This is first of its kind that am witnessing in my 25 years in service. This will help us to address the challenges of proximity.”