Idoma Development Association (IDA) says it is discriminatory for Samuel Ortom to say a candidate from Benue south cannot win the 2023 governorship. The group was reacting to a recent statement made by Ortom, governor of Benue state. Ahead of the 2023 elections, there have been debates for political parties to orbit their governorship tickets to Benue south. The Tiv are found in the senatorial districts of Benue north-west and north-east, whereas the Idoma live predominantly in Benue south senatorial district. Speaking in an interview, Ortom who is from the Tiv region, said the agitations for the rotation of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship ticket to Benue south may be impossible because it could endanger the party’s electoral chances. “If we (PDP) go in a hurry and nominate someone from Zone C (Benue South), and our opponent (APC) does not do the same in Tiv land, it means that the PDP will lose the (governorship) election completely, even with the overwhelming support that we have today in PDP. That is a fact,” the governor was quoted to have said. Reacting in a statement, Alex Odoh, John Ochogwu and Adoyi Omale, the association’s president, legal adviser and secretary, respectively, described the governor’s statement as an “ethnically divisive assertion that is likely to fan the embers of division in the state, and truncate the peaceful coexistence being enjoyed by all the different ethnic groups cohabiting in the state”. “We are seriously disturbed that in this age and time when the long-suffering people of Benue state yearn reprieve, when the state has been mired in the woods of underdevelopment, ostensibly from the decades of inept leadership, the executive Governor of Benue state and some elites, will continue to reduce the pressing prerequisites of good governance to the glorification of ethnic jingoism, rather than capacity and wherewithal to offer purposeful leadership to the Benue Valley,” the statement reads. “Having tried our brothers from the Tiv axis for over four long decades, within which all the five intermediate areas of the Tiv nation had produced governors, it is our thinking that our brothers from Zones A and B will support an Idoma son to pilot the affairs of the state, even if it is for a period of 4years. It is said that one cannot continue to do the same thing all the time and expect a different result. It is time to attempt something different; rotate power to Zone C and see if the lingering leadership failure in the state will be halted for the betterment of all. “It is also unfortunate and demeaning that the state governor, who should be a father to every Benue citizen, irrespective of ethics, regional and religious leanings, will employ the institution of governance to superintend over the pursuit of ethnic agenda, at the detriment of other ethnic groups in the same state that he governs.” The group called on the governor to “retrace his steps so as not to be seen as being involved in a course of action that amounts to an abuse of his office and executive rascality”. “The Idoma nation is part of Benue state and must not be stopped from enjoying every right and privilege available to any Benue Citizen anywhere in the state,” the group said. “The five Tiv intermediate areas having held the position of Governor of the state, we urge our brothers from Zones A and B, to in the spirit of equity, fair-play, a good conscience, sense of belonging and inclusiveness, support an Idoma son to be Governor in 2023.”