Kabiru Gaya, senator representing Kano south, has assumed the position of chairman of The Progressive Project (TPP), an umbrella body of support groups for the presidential campaign of Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo. Addressing a press conference in Abuja on Thursday, Gaya said Osinbajo’s ambition is not personal but a response to “populist calls” from a citizen-driven mobilisation. The senator said he is confident that Osinbajo would succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. “Without an iota of doubt, I am certain that all the knowledgeable people here can attest to the qualities and competence of Professor Yemi Osinbajo,” the TPP chairman said. “You will also agree with me that his chosen method redefines presidential declarations in Nigeria; he has clearly signalled that noble citizens have no need to descend into gutters – no touts were hired by anyone and his message effectively reverberated across the entire country and the diaspora. “Globally, climate change, insecurity, drug trafficking, economic problems such as unemployment and inflation along with many other challenges have worsened and all these impact Nigeria and many other countries. “However, by electing someone of Professor Yemi Osinbajo’s pedigree who has direct insight into the depth of our challenges as well as current strategies and tactics being laid out to tackle them, we have a great chance to move ahead without much waste of time. “I have total confidence that by the power of the Almighty and the electoral power of millions of Nigerian citizens across the six geo-political zones, Yemi Osinbajo will succeed President Muhammadu Buhari on May 20, 2023.” The senator said the support groups have no challenge raising N100 million for the presidential nomination form of the All Progressives Congress (APC). “Just one youth group with TPP says that they can raise N100m with rough voluntary contributions of N10, 000 each by 10, 000 of their supporters who are keen about seeing a better future,” he said. “Our populist mathematics is flawless and very strong; moneybags within or outside APC will only lose their dollars in any contest against the people’s will.”