Ned Nwoko, Nigerian businessman, says the country needs a sports university because it will make children more dedicated to their education. In a statement on Saturday, Nwoko expressed delight that the bill he proposed in the house of representatives in 2017 is finally seeing the light of day. The university is to be established in Delta state. The billionaire businessman said the All Stars Sports University “will take sports in the academic world as a lifestyle to build careers that will enable individuals to make their mark and edge their exploits in accounts of history”. “The project has not only been in the pipeline since 2017 but a burning desire and one of the bills I proposed while in the house of representatives, which has finally seen the light of the day,” he said. “However, there is a misconception that sports hamper a child’s dedication towards academics. “The university is modelled to pursue the advancement of learning in specialised areas of sports development including management as well as to conduct specialised professional coaching courses, and research to advance various breakthroughs in sports.” Nwoko said Nigerians should disregard reports that the university is being used to achieve ulterior motives. “Due to its geographical location and cultural reservations, coupled with the malicious propaganda and misleading tale, tension was generated and the attention of different investigative entities and panels of inquiry at various levels, including the Nigeria Police Force was attracted,” he said. “I, therefore, call on all and sundry to eschew paddling malicious tales and support my vision in rewriting the sporting narrative of our country. “The university is taking off with a secondary school section to scout athletic talents from infancy to proactively improve the number of athletes who finish their education with credentials/training for both sports and non-sports careers to nurture growth and transition. “Above all, the university will be a source of employment for thousands of residents of the host community and beyond.”