Margery Okadigbo, chairman, Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited (NNPC) board, says plans on course to deliver the Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano gas pipeline project in the first quarter of 2023. Okadigbo said this when Mele Kyari, group managing director, NNPC, took the board members on an official tour of segment A sites of the project in the Abaji area council of the federal capital territory (FCT). Garba Deen Muhammad, spokesperson of the NNPC, issued a statement to that effect on Thursday. According to a statement, Okadigbo expressed satisfaction with the progress of work done on the gas pipeline project, adding that the projection was realisable. She noted that the country can leverage the current realities to provide solutions to the global gas supply challenge. Kyari, who was accompanied by other members of his management team, said that as a result of activities around the AKK project, over eight billion standard cubic feet (scf) of gas would be injected into the domestic pipeline of the country. 4. @MKKyari , who described the Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano Pipeline as “a signature project of this administration”, said that it was time for Nigeria to take advantage of having the highest gas reserves in Africa. pic.twitter.com/OtxQ89zrdj — NNPCLimited (@NNPCgroup) April 14, 2022  He added that this would improve power generation, facilitate industrial development, create thousands of job opportunities and deepen domestic gas utilisation. Kyari, who described the Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano pipeline as “a signature project of this administration”, said that it was time for Nigeria to take advantage of having the highest gas reserves in Africa. Emeka Okwuosa, chairman of Oilserv, the company handling Segment A of the AKK project, confirmed his company’s readiness to deliver the project on schedule. He assured that the project managers and teams were more than competent to deliver the project within record time. The construction of the 614km AKK pipeline project was flagged-off simultaneously in Kogi and Kaduna states by President Muhammadu Buhari in 2020 to encourage gas utilisation and serve as a springboard for the nation’s industrialisation. The pipeline is a section of the Trans-Nigeria Gas Pipeline (TNGP). It will originate from the Ajaokuta terminal gas station (TGS) in Kogi, pass through Niger, Abuja and Kaduna, and it will terminate in Kano.