A coalition of civil society organisations (CSOs) says the proliferation of illegal refineries in the country is as a result of government’s “failure to address rising poverty”. The coalition said this in reaction to the fire incident which occurred at an illegal refinery in Imo state on April 22. Over 100 persons were said to have died in the incident. In a statement on Monday, the CSOs faulted the federal government for failing in its promise to stamp out illegal refineries and provide better security. “After each gruesome incident, government officials are quick to make statements promising to stamp out illegal refineries and provide better security. In the same manner, President Buhari has described this explosion and the fatalities as ‘catastrophe and a national disaster’, promising to find and prosecute the sponsors of the illegal activities,” the statement reads. “We note, however, that beyond the statements of condemnation and condolences, government at the state and federal level have consistently failed to diligently examine the key factors that drive the proliferation of artisanal refineries despite the exposure of their operators to fatalities. “Artisanal refineries have grown and expanded principally because government has failed in its responsibilities to provide meaningful engagement for the people, adequately address the prevailing poverty and protect the network of oil installations in the Niger Delta region.” The CSOs also accused law enforcement agencies of “granting operational permits for artisanal refiners to operate freely for a fee, but they are also known to facilitate all aspects of the operations, and in some instances, own and operate their own artisanal refineries”. While expressing concern over the proliferation of artisinal refineries, the CSOs urged the federal government to look beyond security operations and address the underlying issues of poverty that contribute to promoting such illegal activities. CSOs signatory to the statement are: Health of Mother Earth Foundation; We the People; Corporate Accountability and Popular Participation Africa (CAPPA); Environmental Rights Action/Friends of the Earth Nigeria (ERA/FoEN). Others include: Kebetkache Women Development Resource Centre; Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC); CEE-HOPE; Policy Alert; Centre for Media, Environment & Dev. Communications and Women Initiative for Climate Change.