Bola Tinubu, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has called for improved efforts to tackle insecurity in the country. He said this on Tuesday during a visit to Kaduna over the recent train attack in the state. On March 28, a train that departed Abuja was attacked in the Kateri-Rijana area of Kaduna. The attack resulted in eight deaths, while several other persons were injured and at least 22 individuals still missing as of April 3. Hours after the attack, Tinubu cancelled a colloquium organised in commemoration of his 70th birthday owing to the incident. The former Lagos governor, who was received by Nasir el-Rufai, governor of Kaduna, on Tuesday, described the attack as a “disaster”. “We are facing the current challenges seriously and we have to do more. Nigeria bleeds on behalf of everybody. We need to fight terrorism with all our energy and whatever we have,” he said. “It is not shameful for people to be poor, but it is unacceptable to accept poverty as a norm. It is shameful to be callous, wicked and be a bully or terror to instill fear in humanity; it is not acceptable. “I understand that some people are still missing; innocent people maimed and killed. Families are suddenly thrown into sorrow. It is frustrating, but we must submit to the will of God. “I am with my entourage to support and pledge. Whatever we need to do, we will make reasonable contribution to the welfare of the victims. “I urge Nigerians to contribute to the welfare of the victims, either in hospital recovering or in their homes.” Tinubu also donated N50 million to the Kaduna government for victims of the attack. On his part, el-Rufai appreciated the former Lagos governor for cancelling his colloquium in solidarity with the people of Kaduna. “This visit preempted my planned visit to asiwaju to thank him for solidarity with the people of Kaduna for cancelling his colloquium the day it was to take place,” the governor said. “This gesture by asiwaju is a show of powerful leadership, empathy and concern for the lives and property of Nigerians. The government and people of Kaduna state will never forget this gesture. “We are very grateful to you for service, sacrifice and commitment to the unity and that of our country. We appreciate your call for people to contribute to enable us to rehabilitate the victims of this tragedy.”