Equinix Inc., a digital infrastructure company, says it has completed the deal to acquire MainOne, a West African data centre and connectivity solutions provider, for $320 million. The company said the deal would enable it to extend its carrier-neutral digital infrastructure platform to Africa. Equinix disclosed this in a statement on Tuesday, adding that the acquisition marks the beginning of its expansion into the African market. “The completion of this acquisition augments Equinix’s long-term strategy to become a leading African carrier-neutral digital infrastructure company by being able to bring a full range of transformative technologies and connectivity to Nigeria, Ghana, and Cote d’Ivoire,” the statement reads. Last December, Equinix announced its intention to acquire MainOne. According to the company, Nigeria is the largest population and the largest economy in Africa, with approximately 142 million active internet subscribers. Equinix believes Nigeria has a great opportunity for the expansion of digital services, as it is also home to new innovative digital ecosystems in fintech and content and digital media. “This acquisition will extend Platform Equinix into West Africa, giving organizations based inside and outside of Africa access to global and regional markets,” the statement added. Under the deal, MainOne will operate under a new brand called ‘MainOne, an Equinix company,’ while Funke Opeke will continue to lead. The company has enabled connectivity for businesses in Nigeria and now has digital infrastructure assets, including three operational data centres, with an additional facility in Lagos expected to open this month. Equinix said the data centres will add more than 64,000 gross square feet of space to its platform, in addition to 570,000 square feet of land for future expansions. Other assets of MainOne include; a submarine network extending 7,000 kilometres from Portugal to Lagos, Accra, and along the West African coast, with landing stations in Nigeria, Ghana, and Côte d’Ivoire; and access to key internet exchanges enabling low latency to key global networks, including Amazon, Microsoft, Apple, Google, and Facebook. Equinix further stated that the facilities currently generate approximately $60 million in annual revenue, adding that MainOne, is one of the most exciting technology businesses to emerge from Africa.