Chukwuma Soludo, governor of Anambra, has condemned the activities of gunmen and the killings in the state. On Thursday, the headquarters of Aguata LGA in Anambra was razed by gunmen. The development came five days after Soludo called on the federal government to speed up the trial of Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), so that he can be convicted or freed from detention. The governor had also assured residents that he would lead his counterparts in the south-east to engage with the federal government on how to handle the insecurity in the region. He had also called on all genuine agitators to drop their arms and embrace amnesty. Commenting on the recent developments when he visited Aguata LGA on Friday, Soludo said a significant percentage of persons behind the attacks are from one south-east state. “The point is that majority of the people doing this, from the statistics so far, 85 percent of them come from one of the states in the south-east, another 15 percent from another state in the south-east,” he said. “It is really our people doing this to themselves. Common criminals.” He added that such attacks would no longer be tolerated. “We have extended the olive branch to all genuine agitators, and made extensive calls for those in the bush to come out and shun criminality,” he said. “How do you explain to any sane mind that ‘responsible citizens’ have elected to pursue a supposed legitimate course adopting criminal strategies of kidnapping, arson and murder? “This is despicable, not permissible, and against any known law of humanity. “Yesterday, security operatives smoked out some criminal camps at Ogboji and Aguluezechukwu, and the reprisal is the burning of Aguata LGA Headquarters by some of the fleeing criminals. Part of the items found in these criminal hideouts is a register of kidnap victims and the ransom paid. “This is not who we are, never can we, under any guise, allow criminals the latitude to define who we are. “Ndi Anambra are irrepressible. They are out to reclaim their land. To restore peace and set the pace for the building of a Liveable and Prosperous Homeland. I repeat, anyone in the bush with a gun is a criminal and would be fiercely resisted by the people.”