SystemSpecs, a financial technology company, says it has extended the deadline for submission of entries for the 2022 Children’s Day Essay Competition till April 29, 2022. SystemSpecs had earlier fixed April 20, 2022, as the deadline for the competition. In a statement on Monday, Oluwasegun Adesanya, group head, corporate services, SystemSpecs, said the extension is an avenue for many participants to apply after receiving pleas from stakeholders. “The extension is in response to the call by many participants, parents, proprietors of schools and other stakeholders from across the country who claim the second term holidays and overlapping activities have challenged the adequate supervision and coordination of entries’ submission,” Adesanya said. According to SystemSpecs, the competition exists in two categories Junior (age 9-12 years) and Senior (age 13-16 years), the competition is open to primary and secondary school students who are to write on the 2022 topic, “Improving the Quality of Education in Nigeria through Technology.” All entries are to be submitted through the competition portal, www.systemspecs.com.ng/2022essay. Only submissions made through this portal are valid. The school that produces the most number of top winning entries in the junior and senior categories would be rewarded with 10 and 20 high-capacity personal computers, respectively, aside from other benefits. The top 3 individual winners in both categories will win high capacity laptops, topnotch headphones, free uLesson coding certificate courses, monthly 40 gigabyte Internet data for 1 year, travel suitcases, unique keepsake hoodies, school bags and much more. They will also gain automatic admission to the SystemSpecs national summer coding camp. Adesanya said, “the uLesson coding certificate courses for the 3 top winners in each category are the product of a recent collaboration between SystemSpecs and uLesson Coding School, a frontline ed-tech startup that provides high quality, affordable and accessible online coding classes.” “uLesson coding school, in addition to other prizes, will not only equip participants with hands-on relevant technology skills but also help to unleash their creative minds,” he added.