Peter Obi, former governor of Anambra, has asked delegates to vote with the future in mind when selecting the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Obi is one of the presidential hopefuls of the opposition party in the 2023 election. He urged the delegates to “collect money” if they are offered but called on them “consider the future” of their children when voting. He spoke in Owerri, Imo state capital, on Thursday during a consultation visit to the state’s working committee of the PDP. The former Anambra governor also said Nigeria has a revenue-sharing plan but none for production. He said if he’s elected president, he would fight crime by creating opportunities for citizens. “Nigeria only has formula for sharing its resources but no formula for production, our country is not productive,” he said “The first way to fight crime and criminality is through the natural way by providing opportunities for Nigerians to have means of livelihood. “For our party national delegates, if they give you money to buy your votes, collect the money because it is your money but before you vote, consider the future of your children and those yet unborn. “Let’s ask aspirants what they have been doing in their lives, where they have worked. I have been involved in the corporate world, I didn’t owe any salary, gratuity, or any contractor when I left office as Anambra state governor for 8 years and nothing got missing. We need to cut down on our cost of governance.” Doyin Okupe, a former aide of ex-President Goodluck Jonathan, said other regions have had their “fair share” in leading the nation and it was time to give south-east a chance. “Nigeria must take a decision to end civil war, we have been paying lips service to challenges facing our country, south-east does not lack or come behind any zone in this country and we should not pretend that it does not matter,” he said. “South-west has had a fair share with former President Olusegun Obasanjo as Nigerian president for eight years and Prof. Yemi Osinbajo as vice-president for nearly eight years. It is the turn of Igbos to produce the next president and Nigerians are waiting for Peter Obi.” Charles Ugwu, the PDP state chairman, said the Imo chapter of the party will support Obi to realise his presidential ambition. Obi had on March 24 declared his interest to contest the 2023 presidential election, after which a youth group purchased the nomination form for him. The national convention to elect the party’s presidential candidate will take place on May 28, while the governorship primaries will take place on May 21.