At least 100 people have been reportedly killed following an explosion at an illegal oil refining site in Ohaji/Egbema area of Imo state. The incident, which was said to have started around 11pm on Friday, resulted in a fire outbreak at Abaezi forest in Ohaji/Egbema area. Speaking on the incident, Hope Uzodimma, governor of Imo, who was represented by Goodluck Opiah, commissioner for petroleum resources, said many youths lost their lives to the fire, but the exact number of fatalities has not been determined. Opiah also said Okenze Onyewoke, identified as the owner of the illegal refining site, had been declared wanted by the state government. “The fire outbreak occurred at an illegal bunkering site and it affected over 100 people who were burnt beyond recognition,” he said. “At the moment, I can’t really confirm the number of the deceased because many family members have removed the corpses of so many others. “Apart from this calamity, the act has destroyed the aquatic life in the community. Our people before now are predominantly farmers and fishermen. “Look around, you’ll find smoke coming from this illegal act. If this is not enough for any person to stop, I think the community is heading for what I can’t describe. “Most of the people who are engaging in this act are from Rivers, Bayelsa and other neighbouring states and it is sabotage for our people to allow this illegal activity to continue.” He sympathised with the families of the deceased and warned residents to stop engaging in such illicit activity. “I wish to appeal to our youths to desist from making themselves available for this illegal act. This is a suicidal business they got themselves into,” he said. “On behalf of the Imo state government, we condole with the bereaved families. The Imo state government prays that God will give the family of those who lost their lives the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss.” Meanwhile, the development comes amid concerns by stakeholders on the effects of oil bunkering across the country.