Chris Ngige, minister of labour and employment and presidential hopeful, says he has the wealth of experience needed to manage Nigeria. The labour minister announced his intention to run for president on Tuesday. Speaking on Wednesday in an interview on ARISE TV, Ngige said with his years of experience in the civil service, Nigeria needs someone of his kind to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari. “I have the wealth of experience needed at such a difficult time now to manage Nigeria. The government that is in place now, they have executed our programmes in APC built on economy and infrastructure, security and anti-corruption,” he said. “I have the wealth of experience needed because I am coming from a background of a civil servant. I joined civil service in 1981. I rose to become the deputy director, federal ministry of health, and retired in 1998. “I went into [politics] and I became assistant national secretary of a party. From there, I became governor. I have done executive position as governor in Anambra state. I have the required skills for the job.” Ngige also said he hopes to improve on where the present government has not performed excellently. “I am in the room, I am inside the room. President Muhammadu Buhari magnanimously appointed me a minister and made me the minister of labour and employment. So, I am a member of the federal executive council where decisions are taken. Implementation plans are drawn. Execution plans are set out. Directives are given,” he said. “So, I know where we have scored credit; I know where we have scored distinction; I know where you can mark us as haven’t met up the required mark. I will know how to improve on those areas that we haven’t met up with. “It’ll be for us to continue. If you bring a new person, he will start learning on the job. I am inside this government. I know the problem. I know the handicap in execution. “You can’t discuss security in a public forum or on television. I am a believer in the restructuring of the security architecture, particularly the police that is in charge of interior security. I know what to do on security, I won’t discuss it all.”