MTN Nigeria and Pan-Atlantic University (PAU) have announced the launch of the MTN media innovation programme (MTN MIP) for media practitioners and social media content creators. According to a statement issued on Wednesday, the media fellowship would be run by PAU’s school of media and communication (SMC). The statement added that the six-month fully funded fellowship is designed to support the sustainable development of the nation’s changing media scene. Karl Toriola, chief executive officer (CEO), MTN Nigeria, said: “We are driven by our belief that everyone deserves the benefits of a modern connected world and are driving accelerated growth by leading digital solutions for Nigeria’s progress.” “Against this backdrop, the media landscape continues changing at remarkable speeds, boosted by new technologies. Thus, it is only fitting that we support developments in the Nigerian media space with our infrastructure and enable capacity-building initiatives to enable innovation in media practice. “It’s a delight to partner with the Pan-Atlantic University, who, through their expertise, have contributed to the professional development of the media industry, not only in Nigeria but across Africa.” Enase Okonedo, vice-chancellor, Pan-Atlantic University, said the MTN media innovation programme was a step in the right direction. “The School of Media and Communication was established to train professionals who will uphold the highest intellectual, ethical and professional values that promote creativity, critical knowledge, social responsibility and the spirit of enterprise. The MTN Media Innovation Programme could not have come at a better time for Nigerian media practitioners to imbibe these pertinent values,” Okonedo said. According to the statement, the course is designed to give participants a greater understanding of Nigeria’s technology sector and the nexus between media and technology; it will also leave participants better able to adapt to changing realities. It added that fellows would also have access to professional resources and mentorship from the SMC faculty. The course, fully sponsored by MTN Nigeria, would be available to twenty successful applicants. Interested media practitioners can apply HERE.