The BlackHouse Media (BHM) Research and Intelligence, Lagos-based reputation management and marketing communications firm, says its annual report on public relations (PR) and communications in Nigeria will expand to cover all of Africa in 2022. In a press release on Wednesday, BHM mentioned that the report known as the Africa PR and Communications report (APCR) will be the first-ever report to cater exclusively to the PR and communications industry within the African continent. Ayeni Adekunle, BHM founder, said the PR and communications industry was instrumental to helping governments and business leaders wade through challenges of the past months. He added that the organisation has witnessed growth within and outside Nigeria and now hopes to cover the entire African continent in order to provide insights, data, and useful information. “Since we launched the Nigeria PR Report on January 29, 2016, we have witnessed the growth of the industry home and abroad; and five years after, we are pleased to confirm we are now expanding our research to cover a continent that holds plenty of promise for the global communications sector,” he said. “We hope the Africa PR and Communications report will quickly become the authoritative voice in the industry, providing insights, data, and useful information for those working here, as well as everyone outside looking in. “The past 28 months have been volatile for the world. It invariably highlighted our strengths and weaknesses as a continent. And the PR & communications industry was one of the first points of call in advising government and business leaders on wading through the times and supporting initiatives across the continent. “Yet, this only showed a glimpse of the potential of the PR & communications industry. Because beyond health and financial crisis, as an industry, there is a dire need for professionals to be embedded in every area of policymaking, advisory, and management. It is important that the industry understands the almost impossibly heavy sense of duty it has to the continent and the people.” The statement added that the 2022 report will contain verified facts and statistics on the PR industry and analysis that can guide governments and multinationals with resources and recommendations that can assist practitioners in building better careers and business models. Moliehi Molekoa, a member of the APR board and the managing-director of Magna Carta, a pan-African reputation management consultancy, said PR professionals have an increased duty to advise clients based on sound data and experience. He said: “APCR will be one of the key sources of that data. We are filling a void within the industry, and this report will better equip us as professionals as well as the businesses about the African PR landscape. It will provide valuable insights and how to build, manage and protect reputations with the overall aim of elevating the role the industry plays in brand building.” The APCR is being compiled in partnership with the Public Relations and Communications Association (PRCA), the Chartered Institute of Public Relations (CIPR UK), CIPR International, the International Communications Consultancy Organisation (ICCO), Africa Communications Week (ACW), Wadds Incorporated, ID Africa, Plaqad Incorporated, and Magna Carta Reputation Management Consultants.