Atiku Bagudu, chairman of the Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF), says the All Progressives Congress (APC) may use indirect primary mode to pick its candidates for the 2023 elections. Speaking with journalists on Wednesday after the party’s national executive committee (NEC) meeting in Abuja, Bagudu said no “explicit decision” was taken on the mode of primaries. The governor said the ruling party would create equal opportunities for all aspirants seeking to clinch APC’s tickets at various levels. “I think what the national assembly has asked for and what the governors have always asked for is equal opportunity,” Bagudu said when he was asked if the party will give “automatic tickets” to national assembly members. “No party can thrive with equal opportunity. Those who have done well should be supported by the party. We believe that equal opportunity will ensure a proper result. “There was no explicit decision about the mode of primaries but the timetable seems to suggest that it is indirect primaries.” The party released its timetable for its primary elections after the NEC meeting. While the sale of forms for the various public offices will begin from April 23 to May 6, the congress to elect state and national delegates for APC primaries would be held between May 7 and 9. Those aspiring to hold seats in the house of representatives and senate will be screened on May 13, and those seeking to clinch the party’s presidential ticket will be screened on May 14. The party’s presidential candidates are expected to pay N100 million for the nomination form, while for the governorship nomination form, interested persons will pay N50 million. Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari has warned the party leaders against the imposition of candidates. “I call on all party members to abide by all extant laws, rules, and regulations and to leaders of our party to avoid imposition of candidates that cannot win popular elections,” he said. “This dictatorial behavior cost us many strategic seats in the past. In the recent past, this led to some of our strong members unfortunately opting to go elsewhere because of unfairly oppressive behaviour of party leaders at state level. “I must caution strongly against any tendency towards developing cliques, in-fighting within the party. “We want to win well, not succumb to factions on account of personal acerbities and desire to retain control at all costs. That surely is not the road to win.”