The federal government says a preliminary report on the Kaduna train attack has shown that there is a collaboration between bandits and Boko Haram. Several passengers were killed, some injured and many abducted when gunmen attacked the train in March. Speaking with journalists at the end of the federal executive council meeting on Wednesday, Bashir Magashi, minister of defence, and Lai Mohammed, minister of information, said the government was on top of the situation. “I think the security chiefs are working hard to unveil those that are involved, and we will tell you very soon those that are carrying out these attacks,” Magashi said. “Both attacks in Jos and Kaduna, we will come and explain to the public what is really going on and our efforts to ensure that all these activities are stopped once and for all. We are really on top of the situation, we are planning hard and we will get it out as soon as possible.” On his part, Mohammed said there is an unholy handshake between bandits and Boko Haram insurgents. “Preliminary reports of what transpired at the Kaduna train attacks show that there is a kind of collaboration between the bandits and the dislodged Boko Haram terrorists from the north-east,” he said. “I can tell you very confidently that the federal government on the top of this matter.” On Monday, families of victims abducted during the train attack had given the federal government a 72-hour ultimatum to secure the release of their relatives. Commenting on the situation, Mohammed said the federal government won’t divulge its efforts because lives are at stake. The minister said the security agencies are working to unravel the mystery surrounding the attack. “On the kidnapped people, what I can assure you is that the respective arms of government actually engaged as we speak, are working to get those victims released,” he said. “It’s natural for anybody who is a father or a mother of a kidnap person to be worried and to be concerned. “But at the level of government, we appreciate that and we are leaving no stone unturned, but that we’ll give you specific steps we’re taking, I think it will be counter productive and not going to aid or help those who are kidnapped or help the security forces who are tracing and ensuring that there’ll be no repeat of such attacks.”