Nigeria on Monday recorded 27 cases of COVID-19. Here are five updates about the pandemic this Tuesday. ‘WHO analysing two new Omicron COVID sub-variants’ The World Health Organisation (WHO) said it is monitoring a small number of cases of two new sub-variants of the highly transmissible Omicron coronavirus strain to see if they are more infectious or deadly. The agency added BA.4 and BA.5, sister variants of the original BA.1 Omicron variant, to its watch list. BA.1 and BA.2, which are now worldwide dominant, as well as BA.1.1 and BA.3, are already being tracked. US seeks to resume enforcing federal employee COVID vaccine mandate The US justice department has asked a federal appeals court to allow President Joe Biden administration to resume enforcing a federal employee vaccine mandate that was suspended by a lower court in January. Last week, the White House told federal agencies they “must continue to take no action to implement or enforce the COVID-19 vaccination requirement” until the court takes further procedural procedures. Nigeria logs 27 cases Nigeria has recorded 27 cases of COVID-19 across the country. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in its updates for April 11, 2022, said the infections were logged in five states and the federal capital territory (FCT). Below is a breakdown of the infections: Lagos-18
FCT-4
Delta-2
Kaduna-1
Oyo-1
Rivers-1 The agency data showed 107 persons were discharged after they recovered from the infection. No death was recorded leaving the total fatality figure at 3,142. The NCDC said the report includes data recorded from April 9 to 11. Nigeria has now confirmed 255,633 infections and 249,825 recoveries. Canadian city facing sixth wave of COVID pandemic Kieran Moore, Ontario’s chief medical officer, says the city is facing a sixth wave of the pandemic caused by the highly infectious BA.2 sub-variant of the Omicron COVID-19. According to Moore, hospitalisations are expected to grow in the coming weeks. “In the last few weeks, we have seen an increase in the percent positivity and upward trend in wastewater surveillance and a rise in hospitalisations. These trends are likely to continue for the next several weeks,” Moore said. About 3m COVID vaccine doses to expire in Germany by end of June Owing to a decline in the number of persons being vaccinated, almost three million COVID-19 vaccine doses are expected to expire in Germany by the end of June, according to the ministry of health. A law requiring all citizens to be vaccinated, which failed to pass parliament last week, could have stimulated demand and use of the surplus vaccines.