BY SAMUEL PETER The Nigerian guy Emmanuel Tony visited Dubai as a tourist in the 90s and immediately loved the place. Consequently, he planned to have his one business so as to settle herein. Thus, Emmanuel started selling the wood carvings which flourishing quickly. As a result, he started to found a store and he gave it (Nigerian Sculptures) as name. Emmauel said: «I wouldn’t expect a very successful business. I am so happy to stay there and to have a very successful life. So, I invite Nigerian friends to come working in the UAE which is a crossroad of the world, and we (as Nigerian diaspora) are treated with kindness by Emirati people. » Every Saturday, Emmauel and his family go to participate in the Nigerian diaspora festivals in Dubai, carrying with him passion and love for the UAE encouraging his countrymen to preserve the good reputation of the Nigerian diaspora. Tourism:
The Dubai Road is deemed to be the best destination for commerce and vacation for Nigerians. The weekly passenger traffic is 10000 passengers, the greater part of them goes to Emirates Airline. Indeed, since 2019 Dubai embassy in Nigeria has affirmed that 100000 Nigerians visited Dubai yearly for tourism, medical tourism and businesses. In fact, Nigeria is the biggest source of clients for Dubai in Africa, the last three years has witnessed a steady growth in this regard. Mutual relationship:
Since 2009, Nigeria and the UAE have enjoyed a very good relationship when UAE embassy has been established in Nigeria. Then, a visit has been conducted by the president Muhammadu Buhari in 2016 to the UAE as a first destination in Asia after taking the office of president. Cooperation and understanding:
In 2020, a memorandum of understanding has been signed between Nigeria and UAE to provide a platform for the two countries so as to cooperate effectively in various areas (legal, commercial etc.). The UAE celebrated the increasing cooperation with Nigeria on the 49th anniversary of its founding in Abuja. The UAE ambassador stated that he was enthusiastic for the increasing relationship between the two countries. He added « this day is a good sign for the unity and meeting to celebrate our accomplishments in 2020 despite the difficulties. These relations are sponsored and developed by a visionary leadership of the two counties which reached a strategic relations to attain the prosperity of the two countries. Since 2019, the trade oil value between the UAE and Nigeria has reached 1.4 billion USD. Notwithstanding, December the first, side by side with the foreign minister Geoffrey Onyeama on behalf of the Nigerian government, we signed a memorandum to create a joint committee.» That’s been the highest Emirati testimony in Nigeria. It is thus clear that there is a very profound relationship between the two countries in the commercial and tourist sectors without any declination for more than decade. Economic exchange:
The trade volume between the two countries is estimated at 1.5 billion USD with 30 aircraft movement weekly between the Nigerian and Emirati Airlines. For the UAE, the imports in 2017 were 2.23 AED (610 million USD), the Gold was the greatest part with 2.1 billion AED (590 million USD); whilst the UAE exports were 477 AED (130 million USD); whereas the Re-export value to Nigeria last year reached 1.79 billion AED (490 million USD). It is worth mentioning that the Nigerian value of investments in 2016 reached 440 million AED (120 million USD) the large part of it is concentrated in individual investments in the real sector in Dubai because it is the best destination for Nigerians for the tourism, commerce, medication and investments. Additionally, the 22 weekly flights between the UAE and Nigeria are deemed to be a vital platform for the movement trade and tourism. Business activities:
Lagos has hosted recently the forum on trade between Dubai and Nigeria as part of the trade mission organized by Dubai Industries and Exports in cooperation with Dubai embassy in Nigeria. It is worth noting that 17 Emirati brands have participated in different sectors in that event.