The Arewa Alliance for the Presidency of Godwin Emefiele, a political group says it has begun consultations with stakeholders across Nigeria. Although Emefiele, who is currently the governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), has not declared his interest in contesting the presidency, several interest groups have asked him to run for president. Speaking at a media briefing, Dauda Kushu, national convener of the group, said they have met with traditional and political leaders in parts of the north, and that the effort received approval. “Beginning in Yola, Adamawa state, we have convened zonal endorsement session for the proposed presidential ambition of Emefiele. The event was well-attended by stakeholders from various industries,” Kushu said. “Putting their approval on the proposed presidency of Emefiele are several north-east groups, including the north-east business community, All Progressives Congress youth leaders, women leaders and the party stakeholders. “We have also met with all 21 local government chairmen of APC in Adamawa state and other party executives, who also warmly received the proposition of an Emefiele presidency.” Kushu added that the group decided to work for the emergence of the CBN governor as the next president because of his “unbiased, people-focused interventions” at the CBN. “Before Emefiele was appointed CBN governor, underprivileged Nigerians had not felt the impact of the government. However, with Emefiele’s interventions and policies which are focused on poverty alleviation, lives of millions of Nigerians have been significantly improved,” he added. “He has abolished Nigeria’s status as a food-dependent nation and turned it into a food self-sufficient nation. “Official data shows that the CBN has disbursed over N927 billion in less than seven years to over 4.5 million smallholder farmers cultivating 21 commodities across the country under the Emefiele-led ABP. “In continuation of our regional engagements, we will conduct campaigns across the 19 northern states of Nigeria as well as in the southern parts of the country.”