Matchday 23 in the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) was marred by fan violence and vandalism of the Katsina United bus at the Sani Abacha Stadium, Kano. The incident took place on a day when Pillars were returning to their home turf for the first time after a two-year ban due to fan violence and disruption of games. As a result of the development, the match was stopped by the referee in the 82nd minute. Here is TheCable’s round-up of games at various venues. Rangers 0-0 Sunshine Stars It was a goalless affair between Sunshine Stars and Rangers at the Awka City Stadium. With the result, Rangers maintain their position on the third spot of the log with 38 points from 23 matches, while the Owena Whales remain sixth with 33 points. Kano Pillars 0-0 Katsina United The game between Kano Pillars and Katsina United was at 0-0 when it was stopped by the referee. Shooting Stars 3-0 Lobi Stars Shooting Stars had two quick first-half goals from Emmanuel Lucky while Ayo Adejubu completed the trouncing of Lobi Stars to give the Oluyole Warriors a 3-0 win against the Ortom Boys at the Adamsingba Stadium. The victory was the Ibadan-based side’s biggest win of the 2021/22 NPFL season so far. Wikki Tourists 1-1 Kwara United Abubakar Aliyu got Wikki Tourists ahead in the 13th minute of play with a volley. Abdulsalam Abdulsalam levelled the scoreline in the 80th minute for Kwara United. Gombe United 1-1 Akwa United Gombe United settled for a 1-1 draw against the reigning champions, Akwa United, at the Pantami Stadium. Dakkada FC 2-1 Heartland FC Israel Emmanuel and Aniekan Ekpe’s 28th and 53rd minutes goals, respectively, for Dakkada were all the Uyo-based club needed to gain maximum points against Heartland at the Godswill Akpabio Stadium. Monday Yakubu netted a consolatory goal for the visitors in the 63rd minute. Nasarawa United 1-1 Remo Stars It was a 1-1 draw at the Lafia stadium between Nasarawa United and Remo Stars. Andy Okpe opened the scoring for Remo Stars in the fourth minute of the second half. But in the 54th minute, King Osanga equalised for the Solid Miners from a deflected free-kick. Abia Warriors 1-1 Niger Tornadoes Abia Warriors played a 1-1 draw against 10-man Niger Tornadoes in Okigwe. On Sunday, Plateau United will take on MFM FC in Jos and table toppers, Rivers United, will have Enyimba to contend with on Monday.