Nyesom Wike, governor of Rivers state, says he has the capacity and energy required to serve and salvage Nigeria as president in 2023. Speaking on Tuesday when he visited stakeholders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Gombe state as part of ongoing consultation ahead of the party’s presidential primary election, Wike said it requires men of courage like him to rescue Nigeria from dying. The governor asked the PDP stakeholders in the state not to waste their votes as delegates at the party’s convention on candidates who cannot win the 2023 general election. “If you want PDP to win election in 2023, I have made myself available. Give me the ticket, let me go and take the power for you. We are talking about who can take this power from APC (All Progressives Congress). That person is me,” Wike said. “We need to salvage this country. Let us not pretend about it. Insecurity does not know religion. Insecurity does not know ethnicity. Poverty does not know ethnicity. Poverty does not know religion. “The people who come to kill us, do they look at who is a Christian? Do they look at who is a Moslem? Do they know who is Hausa-Fulani? Do they know who is Igbo? We are dying. “So, it is not for sentiment. It is not for people to come and tell you, look, it must come from here, no, no. It is for those who have the capacity. If given the opportunity, I will replicate what I’ve done in Rivers State as President of Nigeria.” Wike accused the APC-led federal government of lying concerning improving the agricultural fortune of the country. He said if given power in 2023, the PDP government will not tell Nigerians lies and make excuses for failure, but will work to genuinely improve the lives of Nigerians across the country. “They said they have given over N300 billion for agriculture. I have no problem with that. Even if they have spent N1 trillion, where is the food?” the governor asked. “I don’t want people going to buy rice and doing pyramid. I want to see to it that agriculture is working.”