Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo says being vice-president for seven years has prepared him to be president. Laolu Akande, his media, quoted Osinbajo as saying this when he visited Aladelusi Ogunlade Aladetoyinbo, the Deji of Akure, on Monday in Ondo state. The vice-president said he is fortunate to have served in various capacities, adding that he wants to use his experience to serve the country. “I have served for the past seven years as the vice-president of Nigeria, and I have also acted within that period when the president was away,” he said. “I think that I am fortunate, and we are fortunate to have been given tremendous opportunities to serve, also even when I acted (as president). “In that capacity, I am probably the only person trained to be (in that duration), because if you have been a vice-president and also as acting president, then you have been trained, and I must say with utmost humility that, that is exactly how I feel.” The vice-president said those who have been given the opportunity to serve should be available to do more. “I feel that with what God has given me within the past seven and half years, I must be able to give to my country. People die for this country every day; there are young men and women, soldiers who die for this country every day,” he said. “That is the greatest act of loyalty that one can have for one’s country. Those of us whom God has given some opportunities to serve must be prepared to offer that service whenever we are called upon to do so. “Which is why I declared my intention to run for the president of the federal republic of Nigeria. And I want to say that I am grateful to God; and I am grateful to you for all your support, advice and counseling in the past.” On his part, the monarch said in other places, Osinbajo would have been endorsed to continue as president at the expiration of President Muhammadu Buhari’s tenure. “Had it been it were in advanced countries, in all of the APC, nobody would run (for president), they would all just support you,” he said.