Chukwuma Soludo, governor of Anambra state, is yet to fulfil his promise of publishing a detailed implementation plan of his manifesto within 30 days in office. During the campaign, Soludo promised he would publish, within 30 days on assumption of office, a full agenda document coasted with timelines and delivery mechanism. “What we present here is a synopsis, designed to give Ndi Anambra a feel for the future we envision. The full agenda coasted with timelines and delivery mechanisms will be published within the first 30 days on the assumption of office, if you give me the mandate,” he said. He also repeated the promise on page 56 of his manifesto to prove his readiness to Ndi Anambra. However, 33 days later, Soludo is yet to fulfil the promise to publish the crucial, forward-facing document for Ndi-Anambra. On November 10, 2021, Soludo was declared winner of Anambra governorship election by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) after polling 112,229 votes to defeat his two major rivals — Valentine Ozigbo of the PDP who got 53,807 votes, and Andy Uba of the All Progressives Congress (APC) who secured 43,285 votes. Soludo was sworn in alongside Onyeka Ibezim, his deputy, at a low-key event on March 17. According to AdvoKC, a Civic Tech platform established to help citizens engage, track and hold elected officials accountable, the failed promise is one out of 100 promises Soludo made in his manifesto. Abiola Durodola, AdvoKC team lead, told TheCable that the team created the Soludometer as a mechanism for Anambra people both at home and in the diaspora to monitor the new government’s activities. “Accountability is an important way of ensuring good governance, this is why we’re tracking the most important promises of Charles Soludo. During the electioneering process, there were a lot of promises made at political rallies, in the manifesto, and even in debates,” he said. “Before being elected as the governor, Prof. Soludo was the chairman of Anambra vision 2070 and according to him, he has deeply examined challenges and the needed changes to reposition the state. This is one of the reasons we’re closely monitoring his performance as the governor. This will allow citizens especially those who don’t know about promises hold their leader accountable.” “After he was sworn in there was also the expectation by a lot of citizens for the Governor to deliver on his campaign promises. Thus, we created the Soludometer as a mechanism for Anambrans both home and in diaspora to monitor government activities. At AdvoKC, we also remind elected officers ahead of deadlines and advocate for unfulfilled promises to be kept.” “This is just one out of the many promises made by Prof. Soludo. He has started some and we’ve tracked and published them on our platform. We will continue to monitor his performance through our promise tracker.”