Rotimi Amaechi, minister of transportation, was the first political appointee of President Muhammadu Buhari to formally declare his intention to run for president in 2023, and within weeks, other cabinet members announced their bids for the most important office in Nigeria. As of the last count, three ministers and the vice-president have formally joined the race for the presidential ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC), with a few others rumoured to be nursing similar ambitions and quietly ‘consulting’. TheCable brings to you Buhari’s cabinet members seeking elective positions. YEMI OSINBAJO Vice-president Yemi Osinbajo announced his presidential ambition on April 11. In his declaration speech, the vice-president emphasised the need to build on the achievements of the Buhari administration while noting that he understands the hopes, fears and aspirations of Nigerians. “I now most solemnly and respectfully seek the support of fellow Nigerians everywhere in this land, and the diaspora, young and old, male and female, in the great and exciting journey that we have ahead of us,” he had said. Ever since he declared his bid, Osinbajo has been travelling around the country to solicit support from key stakeholders ahead of the APC primary. ROTIMI AMAECHI On April 9, Amaechi announced his presidential bid at an event in Rivers state, which had in attendance Simon Lalong, governor of Plateau; Adams Oshiomhole, former APC national chairman, and Ali Ndume, senator representing Borno south. The minister said he wants to contest the party’s presidential ticket to make a difference in the lives of Nigerians. “Today, I stand as an aspirant to the position of President because of that same passion for people; that same drive for results. More than ever before, I am burning with the zeal to make a decisive difference in the lives of all Nigerians,” the minister had said. “No matter the darts and arrows that come my way, I will remain steadfast because the stakes are too high. We cannot afford to fail. We cannot afford to veer off-course.” CHRIS NGIGE Chris Ngige, minister of labour and employment, on April 19, formally made known his intention to contest the presidency. Ngige threw his hat in the ring before an excited crowd at Alor, Idemili South LGA of Anambra state. The minister said his extensive experience in public office gives him the capacity to perform well as president. CHUKWUEMEKA NWAJIUBA On Wednesday, a support group, known as Project Nigeria, bought the expression of interest and nomination forms for Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, minister of state for education, to contest the 2023 presidential election on the platform of the APC. In his acceptance speech, the minister said Buhari has achieved “extraordinary feats” in the last seven years, adding that a lot of work needs to be done. Commenting on calls for the resignation of presidential hopefuls in Buhari’s cabinet, Nwajiuba said: “The resignation of a minister or anybody who is in office is guided by the constitution to contest elections. “My position is that the law of the country rests on the ground norm called the constitution. If you do not like the constitution, your work is to amend it. There is no subrogation of power that is required for you to include into a law what is not deemed as included in that law.” While the aforementioned cabinet members have publicly declared their intentions, some others are believed to be interested in the top job but are yet to take a definite position. Ogbonnaya Onu, minister of science and technology; Godswill Akpabio, minister of Niger Delta affairs; and Timipre Sylva, minister of state for petroleum resources, fall into this category. Although Godwin Emfiele, governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), is rumoured to be interested in the presidency, the top banker has said he is focused on his job. ABUBAKAR MALAMI On Thursday, Abubakar Malami, attorney-general of the federation (AGF), announced his intention to contest the governorship of Kebbi state in 2023, putting an end to months of speculation. Early this month, media reports had quoted the minister of justice as declaring to run for governor. But Malami denied the news, saying a video wherein he spoke was “translated with fabricated insertions”. When he eventually declared his governorship ambition, Malami said he had accepted the people’s calls to run. “The chairman of the party has announced the commencement of sale of forms for aspirants. My fellow people, let me let you know in this gathering that a lot of people have been calling on me to declare that I will contest,” he said. “If you have accepted, then from my own end, I have accepted to contest.” While Malami has finally put speculations to rest by joining the Kebbi guber race, other members of Buhari’s cabinet are rumoured to be nursing similar ambitions. Isa Pantami, minister of communications and digital economy, belongs to this group, as he is said to be interested in running for governor of Gombe state. Last month, some residents in Gombe filed an order of mandamus in the state high court to compel him to join the governorship race. “To demonstrate our commitment to this cause is to use the law to compel professor Isa Ali Pantami to perform his duty in Gombe state by vying for the upcoming primaries in any party of his choice. This legal action was entered by 114 persons across the 114 wards, and like-minded youths have decided to buy his nomination form,” Muhammad Abdullahi, leader of the group, had said. Another rumoured governorship hopeful is Sunday Dare, minister of youth and sports development, who is said to be eyeing the governorship seat in Oyo — a report he has denied. Speaking in an interview in October 2021, the minister had said: “No plans for governorship. My plan right now is to succeed at the assignment given to me by President Muhammadu Buhari for the Nigerian people.” Uche Ogah, minister of state for mines and steel development, is another cabinet member who is reportedly nursing a governorship ambition. The minister is said to be eyeing the number one office in Abia state. Editor’s note: This list will be updated as more cabinet members declare their political ambitions.