The National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) has constituted a nine-member caretaker committee to oversee the union’s operations in Lagos. Tajudeen Baruwa, the union’s national president, disclosed this in a statement on Friday. Baruwa said the committee was constituted to coordinate the operations of the union across the state following the dissolution of the Lagos administrative council. He said the caretaker committee would allow for continuity in the administration of the transport union’s activities, and would ensure that members of the union continue to support the government’s master plan for transport development. “The nine-man caretaker committee will be led by Mr Fatai Adeshina, a stakeholder in the transportation sector, and the committee will operate for the next three months as stipulated in the union’s constitution,” the statement reads. “Other members of the committee are Mr Sunday Yusuf, Abraham Onifade, Jamiu Erinfolami, Ismaila Ojora, Lekan Ariyibi, Murtala Lawal, Taiwo Azeez, while Kayode Agbeyangi would serve as the secretary. “The union knows that they will effectively manage affairs of Lagos chapter after SAC dissolution, which was done to bring sanity to the union’s operation across the metropolis.” Baruwa thanked Babajide Sanwo-Olu, governor of Lagos, for his support to the union over the years, and appealed to him to sustain the peaceful coexistence between the union and the state government. “The body’s national leadership appealed to Governor Sanwo-Olu to allow the existing harmonious relationship between NURTW and Lagos State Government to continue and that it will be extended to the newly appointed officers of the union,” he said. In March, the NURTW national leadership suspended Musiliu Akinsanya, better known as MC Oluomo, as the chairman of the Lagos chapter of the union over alleged misconduct, insubordination and incitement. Owing to the suspension, MC Oluomo announced the decision of the state chapter to withdraw its membership from the national body of the NUTRW. Subsequently, the Lagos government suspended the activities of the NURTW in the state. The Lagos government also constituted a 25-member committee to oversee operations at motor parks and garages in the state, and named MC Oluomo as the chairman of the committee. However, earlier in April, the national leadership of the NURTW sacked MC Oluomo as the chairman of the Lagos chapter of the union, and also announced the dissolution of the state’s administrative council of the union.