Frank Nweke II, a former minister of information, has declared his intention to contest the Enugu governorship seat on the platform of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). Nweke recently defected to APGA from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and picked up the governorship form on April 5. The Enugu gubernatorial election is billed to take place on March 11, 2023. Disclosing his intention to supporters and party members in Enugu on Saturday, the former minister promised to serve with diligence, transparency and accountability. Nweke said his life’s journey prepared him to serve Enugu people, adding that a visit to 209 communities in Enugu ignited his passion for service. “I saw, first-hand, the primitive and agonising living conditions of our people and their deep yearning for the most basic needs of human existence. This state of affairs remains true even today, and the time to change it is now,” he said. “We face urban fragility in our towns and cities, as systems are overwhelmed by the demand for jobs, social goods and services such as housing, transportation, an intractable water crisis, poor electricity supply and low Internet broadband access. “An attendant surge in crimes such as kidnapping, armed robbery, murder, rape and domestic violence, substance abuse, cults and gang-related violence are direct consequences of the high level of unemployment, hopelessness and general breakdown of law and order. “It is glaring that silo support and interventions by individuals and groups are not enough; we must focus on systemic transformation, and this is possible through our collective, informed and active political participation.” Nweke said with a “clear vision, disciplined and transparent leadership and solid team”, Enugu would be returned to the path of progress. He commended the efforts of the present administration, but said there is still so much work to be done. “I am determined to wean Enugu state out of the current toga of being a lethargic civil service state characterised by inertia in its administrative workings, low wages, and lack of enabling environment for workers, students and entrepreneurs,” he said. “My leadership will priotise and invest in women, youth, children, and in technology as the key catalyst and foundation for far-reaching socio-cultural political and economic transformations.”