An Igbo think tank, Nzuko Umunna, has called on Nigerians to support a presidential candidate from the south-east in the interest of promoting fairness. Ngozi Odumuko, the executive secretary of the group, in a statement on Thursday, said an event tagged ‘Greater Nigeria Conference’, where the merits of choosing an Igbo president will be highlighted, is in the works and will be held in Abuja. Odumuko said stakeholders from various geo-political zones will be invited to the forum. “At no time better than now is best to cast the net of presidential recruitment to the south-east, given the inspiring stature of people from the zone with proven capacity, competence, fitness, knowledge and eagerness to serve this country as president,” he said. “Putting these worthy candidates on the table before Nigerians will make them appreciate deeply how prepared south-east has come through in their compelling quest to balance our political sensitivity towards a stronger union. “We are determined by the eminence of the leading lights of this conference, in the persons of Dr Okwesilieze Nwodo, former governor of Enugu state, and distinguished senator Victor Umeh, both former chairmen of prominent national parties in Nigeria, to ask Nigerians to give the south-east region the opportunity to make history for one Nigeria. “Stakeholders of Nzuko Umunna, a global Igbo think tank, will unveil a stirring national conversation to persuade Nigerians to see the fidelity of a Nigerian president from the south-east region as the fairest national consensus for equity, justice and fairness to be seen as our unifying cornerstone.” He added that Igbo people are blessed with individuals who can lead Nigeria to greatness, saying the forum will also underscore the need for good governance, equity in diversity, and fairness by inclusion. On his part, Chris Anyanwu, president of Nzuko Umunna, said the forum will highlight the historical peculiarities of the south-east and how to forge a way ahead in nation-building. “The task before the conference is to drive home the obligation of Nigeria in the urgent search for real nationhood and to achieve true healing when sores of history are treated intentionally than ignored conveniently,” he said.