Mela Victor, a member of the house of representatives, says the federal government needs to review the functions of ministries, departments and agencies to avoid “duplicated functions”. Victor spoke in Abuja after he was named chairman of an ad hoc committee to investigate the “duplication of duties, overlapping functions and counter-productivity of established agencies, departments, boards, parastatals and corporations in the country”. The lower legislative chamber had passed the resolution in March following the adoption of a motion sponsored by Tahir Monguno, the chief whip of the house. Addressing journalists on Tuesday, the legislator representing Balanga/Biliri federal constituency of Gombe state, said there are “a lot of agencies” that have duplicated functions gulping government funds. “Some of them are not supposed to exist. Some of them were made for intervention and after intervening, they are still existing and the government is still spending money to keep these agencies of government,” he said. ”It is wastage for us at a time when the government needs money. So, it is time to make sure that whatsoever thing we have is important and what is not important should be taken away. “Nigeria is at a time when drastic measures have to be taken. We approve the money; we approve the loan for the president in this country; that time should be over. We spend government money keeping agencies that are not important; we don’t need it. “It is time to reduce government expenditure and cost on some of these agencies and put these money on infrastructure and so many other things.” Victor added that the committee will also consider the Stephen Oronsanye report and invite the panel to make contribution. “We are acting as legislators, not executive as the arm of government to make laws for the existence of those agencies,” he said. “The Oronsanye report is a wonderful report. We are going to look into it. We are going to invite people during the public hearing to make presentation to the nation. “It is not about losing jobs; it is about moving the country forward.”