The family of Joseph Makoju, former group managing director and chief executive officer of Dangote Cement, has announced his burial rites. Makoju died around 12pm on Monday at his Abuja residence. According to the family, the commendation mass for the former presidential aide will take place on Tuesday at the Holy Trinity Catholic Church, Maitama, Abuja. The wake will also take place on Tuesday at Christ the King Church, Okene, Kogi state. The family said the requiem mass will take place on Wednesday at Christ the King Church, Okene, Kogi state while the burial will take place at his residence at chief oyeyan makoju street, Karaworo, Okene, Kogi state. Despite being a Christian, family sources said Makoju‘s dying wish was to be “buried immediately without delay”. Makoju studied mechanical engineering at the University of Nottingham, UK, where he graduated with first-class honours in 1972. He also bagged a master of philosophy in mechanical engineering in 1974 from the same university. The engineer attended the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies NIPSS, Kuru, Jos, from 1989 to 1990 and also holds an honorary doctor of science degree in engineering from the Federal University of Agriculture, Makurdi. Makoju served as special adviser on electric power to former Presidents Goodluck Jonathan and Olusegun Obasanjo. He was also the honorary adviser to the president/chief executive, Dangote Group, and was a one-time chairman, Cement Manufacturers Association of Nigeria. Makoju retired as the GMD/CEO of Dangote Cement in 2020, a position he had held since April 2018. He was the pioneer chairman of the Board of the West African Power Pool and a former managing director of the National Electric Power Authority (Power Holding Company of Nigeria). Makoju belongs to several professional bodies including the Nigerian Society of Engineers, the Nigerian Institute of Management and the British Institute of Mechanical Engineers. He was awarded the Officer of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (OFR) and Grand Commander of the Special Order of Merit (GCSO), Niger Republic.