Pam, son of David Jang, former governor of Plateau state, has declared his intention to contest a seat in the house of representatives. Pam is vying to represent Jos south/Jos east federal constituency seat on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The seat is currently occupied by Dachung Musa Bagos who is running for a second term. A support group led by Dagwom Dang purchased the declaration of interest and nomination forms and presented it to Pam in Jos, the capital of Plateau. Speaking while presenting the forms, Dang said Pam possess the qualities to represent the constituency. “We have seen the quality of leadership in Hon. Pam, hence our determination to support him to represent this constituency,” he said. “As a pilot, this group believes Pam will use his leadership qualities to lead this constituency, as he has flown aeroplanes, and taken his passengers and crew safely to their destinations. “For me who has thought in the higher institution for over 16 years, my students know that whenever I say something, they know I mean it, and I know they will support this project.” In his response, Pam said he accepts the call and will provide an effective representation. “I sincerely thank you all for this honour, which I consider as a privilege,” he said. “It is a common fact that our people are in dear need of genuine and effective representation in the green chambers that should be defined by results not attributes and making speeches or being liked. “As I humbly accept this clarion call to serve my great people of Jos south/Jos east federal constituency in the national assembly, I wish to state clearly that I believe in the concept of effective representation and I do not see this contest as a do or die affair, because leadership and power comes from God. “I know that the work of a legislator is not an easy one considering the present state of the nation and a constituency like ours in Jos south/Jos east, but am confident that by the grace of God we will do our best. “It is my sincerely prayers that God almighty who has started this good work will see it to completion in Jesus name.” Jang was executive governor of Plateau from 2007 to 2015. 