Sunday Dare, minister for youth and sports development, says two major all-encompassing documents that would reposition sports in Nigeria will be ready soon. The minister spoke on Sunday while reiterating his commitment to ensuring the total implementation of the documents containing the policies and master plans. “The National Sports Industry Policy (NSIP) and Football Masterplan Committee would produce two wholesome documents that would further foster sports development as well as provide a comprehensive framework to guide sports development in the country,” he said. “We have been able to successfully re-classify sports as a business and this is just a small part of a larger plan. The final draft of the National Sports Industry Policy has been submitted to the Federal Ministry of Justice and we are positive it would change the face of sports in the country. Policies are well-thought, necessitated by a need for direction and wholesome in its approach, so while it may take a lot of time, it would leave a lasting impact.” The minister also said that the committee on football masterplan development established to develop football in Nigeria would submit its report in the first week of May as part of the plans to re-think Nigerian football. On his administration’s adopt-a-sports facility initiative, the minister said: “After eleven years of neglect, the Moshood Abiola National Stadium, Abuja has enjoyed comprehensive rejuvenation, getting CAF/FIFA’s pass mark, as well as hosting major national and international sports activities. The National Stadium, Surulere is currently under revamp after suffering 19 years of abandonment. Sports infrastructure in Daura, Abuja and Lagos have all benefitted from this initiative that was conceived to revitalise sports infrastructure in the country and ensure their proper maintenance.” Dare had earlier initiated the adopt-an-athlete initiative which has seen over 32 athletes receive financial support to help lessen the burden of tournament participations, medical bills and out-of-competition trainings. In a bid to boost the Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL), Dare had also mandated the League Management Company (LMC) to enforce club licensing for teams with the need to take the games to the people through the NPFL TV while prescribing sanctions for clubs that break the league’s code of conduct. The ministry inaugurated the talent hunt program to incubate bright minds and help them harness their talents. Two major memorandum of understanding (MoU) agreements were also signed with the presidents of Turkey and South Africa for youth exchange drive and development. In his bid for inclusiveness of young people in national development, Dare hosted the first-ever national youth conference with youth from all over the country in attendance. “We are determined to ensure that everything necessary is done to effect lasting impact and sustainability of these programmes so that Nigeria can ultimate reap the benefits,” he said.