Yahaya Bello, governor of Kogi and presidential hopeful, says he’s not worried about his chances against anyone interested in contesting the presidency in the 2023 general election. Bello spoke on Wednesday after he picked up the presidential expression of interest and nomination forms at the All Progressives Congress (APC) secretariat in Abuja. While responding to a question on if he’s concerned about the recent calls for former President Goodluck Jonathan to contest the presidency, the Kogi governor said he is not bothered. “That is the beauty of democracy. In democracy, anybody can push for, vie for or support anyone. But I am assuring you that our great party is a party that has its ethics, rules and regulations, and I know surely that all these are in my favour and I am not in any way scared or deterred by the pedigree of anybody whatsoever,” he said. “I am confident because I am in the majority. I have the women, youths, people with special needs; I have leaders, I have followers, I have Nigerians, and I have God almighty behind me.” He added that he has what it takes to win the party’s ticket and secure victory for the APC in the presidential election. “This is the hope for the nation; this is the hope we’re yearning for; this is the unity we’re yearning for; this is the progress we’re yearning for; this is the security we’re yearning for. We achieved it in Kogi state and we are going to achieve it in Nigeria and build on the successes of President Muhammadu Buhari,” he said. “What we have ahead of us is a task of canvassing and consulting all party faithful, delegates, leaders, stalwarts and all Nigerians at home and in the diaspora to give us support so that we become the flagbearer of this great party “I am confident that I shall be victorious and the party shall be victorious. Yahaya Bello is coming to restore hope for Nigerians and the entire Africa and black nations across the world, to unite, secure and put our people and country on the path of progress and prosperity. “This is an opportunity I will not take for granted. I will continue to work hard as I used to. Over 21 million Nigerians have registered and indicated willingness to elect me if given the party’s nomination. I can assure you that when we become the party flagbearer, other political parties put together will not come to half of the votes I will gather in the 2023 general election by the special grace of God.”