The Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) has approved the promotion of over 1,000 officers. Bisi Kazeem, corps public education officer, in a statement, said the promotion was approved on Thursday. The promotion exercise was said to have included medical examination, physical test exercises, computer-based examination, and oral interview. Among those promoted were 18 officers who were also asked to proceed on terminal leave. “The Federal Road Safety Commission has on 31 March, 2022 approved the appointment of 2 Assistant Corps Marshals (ACM) to the rank of Deputy Corps Marshal (DCM); 4 Corps Commanders (CC) to the rank of Assistant Corps Marshal (ACM), 39 Deputy Corps Commanders (DCC) to the rank of Corps Commander (CC), and 64 Assistant Corps Commanders (ACC) to the rank of Deputy Corps Commanders (DCC),” the statement reads. “Others include: 57 Chief Route Commanders promoted to Assistant Corps Commanders; 132 Superintendent Route Commanders to Chief Route Commanders; as well as 427 Route Commanders elevated to the rank of Superintendent Route Commander. “In addition, the Commission also approved the promotion of 317 Deputy Route Commanders to the rank of Assistant Route Commander; as well as 76 Assistant Route Commanders (ARC) to the rank of Deputy Route Commander (DRC). “Others who were elevated with the mandate to proceed on terminal leave are two Assistant Corps Marshals appointed to the rank of Deputy Corps Marshal; 3 Corps Commanders also promoted to the rank of Assistant Corps Marshal; 7 Deputy Corps Commanders promoted to the rank of Corps Commander, and 6 Assistant Corps Commanders equally promoted to the rank of Deputy Corps Commander, respectively.” Kazeem added that the approval followed a meeting of the FRSC, during which the report of the establishment committee of the commission on promotion of officers was considered. According to the statement, Bukhari Bello, chairman of the board, expressed satisfaction with the “transparency and objectivity that heralded the whole process”. Bello also encouraged the promoted officers to “show more commitment and rededicate themselves to achieving the corporate mission of the corps, which is to eradicate road traffic crashes and create a safer motoring environment in the country”. The board chairman added that the promotion exercise is part of efforts to reward excellence. On his part, Boboye Oyeyemi, corps marshal, congratulated the officers for performing excellently during the promotion exercise, and urged them to keep up the good work. Oyeyemi also said there would be measures taken to improve the welfare of officers.