The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has named Salisu Yusuf as the head coach of the Super Eagles B side and the under-23 team. The football body made the development known in a statement shared on its website on Thursday. Yusuf, who coached the home-based Eagles until he was caught on camera accepting cash gift to field players, is to be assisted by Kennedy Boboye, Fatai Osho, Abubakar Mohammed, Fidelis Ilechukwu and Ike Shorounmu. His appointment comes weeks after he was dismissed alongside other Super Eagles crew members following the failure to qualify for the Qatar 2022 World Cup. The former Kano Pillars manager was reinstated into the crew as an assistant coach, three years after the NFF had slammed him with a one-year ban and a fine of $5,000 for the bribery incident. For the Flying Eagles, Ladan Bosso retained his position as the team’s head coach. Nduka Ugbade was named head coach of the Golden Eaglets, while Patrick Bassey got the U13/15 male team job. “The Executive Committee of the Nigeria Football Federation has approved the recommendation of its Technical and Development Sub-Committee for the appointment of Salisu Yusuf as the Head Coach of the Super Eagles B (otherwise known as CHAN team) as well as the U23 (Olympics) team,” the statement reads. “Yusuf, who was Head Coach of the Super Eagles B when the team emerged runner-up of the African Nations Championship in Morocco in 2018, will work with Kennedy Boboye (Assistant Coach); Fatai Osho (Assistant Coach); Abubakar Bala Mohammed (Assistant Coach); Fidelis Ikechukwu (Assistant Coach); Eboboritse Uwejamomere (Match Analyst) and Ike Shorounmu (Goalkeepers’ Trainer) and Suleiman Shuaibu (Goalkeepers’ Trainer 2). “In other appointments, Ladan Bosso retains his position as Head Coach of the U20 Boys. He will work with former U17 Head Coach, Fatai Amao (Assistant Coach); Oladuni Oyekale (Assistant Coach); Jolomi Atune Alli (Assistant Coach) and; Baruwa Olatunji Abideen (Goalkeepers’ Trainer) “For the U17 Boys, Golden Eaglets, Nduka Ugbade was named Head Coach. He will work with Ahmad Lawal Dankoli (Assistant Coach); Omoniyi Haruna Ilerika (Assistant Coach); Yemi Daniel (Assistant Coach), and; Mohammed Nasiru Isah (Goalkeepers’ Trainer). Ugbade captained Nigeria’s first cadet team that won the FIFA U16 World Cup in China in 1985. “For the U13/15 Boys known as Future Eagles, Patrick Bassey will be Head Coach and will work with Abdullahi Tyabo Umar (Assistant Coach); Mohammed Kalli Kachalla (Assistant Coach); Ifeanyi Uba (Assistant Coach); Alh. Mohammed Kwairanga (Assistant Coach) and; Abubakar Abdullahi (Goalkeepers’ Trainer).” The NFF said a new head coach for the Super Eagles would be announced and unveiled once the processes for his engagement and contract signing are concluded.