The Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) has confirmed the safety of 170 passengers aboard the recently-attacked Abuja-Kaduna train. The development comes days after the train was attacked in the Kateri-Rijana area of the state. Giving an update to NAN on Saturday, Fidet Okhiria, NRC managing director, said 21 passengers have been reported missing. He said the NRC was collaborating with relevant authorities to guarantee the safety of the other passengers. “The Corporation, in continuation of its concerted effort through repeated calls, has been able to confirm the safety of 170 passengers, while 21 passengers are reported missing by the relatives who made calls to us,” NAN quoted Okhiria as saying. “The corporation is seriously collaborating with the security agencies who had already swung into action, in line with the directive of Mr President to do everything possible to rescue all those that are still missing.” Okhiria said human and material resources have been moved to the accident site to ensure the prompt resumption of train services. “In practical terms, a high powered restoration team, led by Directors have been working round the clock to re-rail the coaches affected by the bomb blast,” he said. “There is a coordinated two-pronged simultaneous restoration approach. While Loco 2702 with re-railment and restoration materials departed Idu Station, Abuja, to the bomb blast site. “Another team with Loco 2502 departed Rigasa Station, Kaduna, with re-railment and restoration materials to the same site. “I am happy to inform you that as at the close of work on the 1st of April 2022, Coaches SP00004, SP00009, SP00012, SP00013 have all been re-railed and safely taken to our Rigasa Station in Kaduna. “Restoration of track for full resumption of normal train services will continue today, 2nd April 2022.” Okhiria said arrangements had been put in place for increased security along the track and onboard the train to prevent the recurrence of the incident. The NRC had announced the suspension of the Abuja-Kaduna railway operation following the incident. Lucky Irabor, chief of defence staff, had said seven people were killed during the attack. TheCable had reported that Musa-Lawal Ozigi, TUC secretary-general; Akin Akinsola, TUC Kwara chairman; and Chinelo Nwando Megafu, a dental surgeon, were among those who died during the attack.