Labaran Maku, former minister and governorship hopeful, says Nasarawa state derailed because of the absence of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in government. Speaking when he submitted his expression of interest and nomination forms at the PDP national secretariat in Abuja on Saturday, Maku said Nasarawa needs to be restored to what it ought to be. The former minister said the state has recorded violence and insecurity because of poor management of resources. “There is absolutely no doubt that PDP is back to life in Nasarawa State and PDP now is gathering the momentum by the grace of God come 2023 to return to power in Nasarawa state,” he said. “As I speak to you, a lot of movement is going on in Nasarawa and a lot of people are returning to the party once it was confirmed that I am back to this party. I have no doubt that there is absolutely no way that the PDP will not get back power in Nasarawa State in 2023. “I am back to this party because it’s a broader platform, It’s a bigger platform and a national platform. So I’m back first of all to continue to serve the party and contribute my quota to the progress and victory of the PDP at all levels. As I returned to this party, Nasarawa State is turning 360 degrees towards the PDP. “Since PDP left, the state has derailed completely. A peaceful state descended into violence and insecurity because of a high level of mismanagement of resources and opportunities. “The most important need for Nasarawa right now is the restoration of the institutions of governance that had been run down. When you see a state in crisis of security, poverty, malfunctioning institutions, what it tells you is that the institutions of governance are down. “Our state is in need of restoration and rescue because the state has slid. The civil service is down; every institution of government is down. Workers’ salaries are hardly paid and nobody talks of paying pensions in Nasarawa State in recent times.” The former minister said if elected governor, he would work with leaders at all levels to ensure that there is security in the state.