Livinus Lokiri, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has cautioned members of the party against imposing “unpopular candidates” on Ekeremor LGA of Bayelsa state ahead of the 2023 elections. Addressing journalists on Friday, Lokiri said imposing candidates who are unpopular with the public will hamper the party’s electoral fortunes in the state. “We have just watched a video where people who are known agents of the minister of petroleum, Timipre Sylva, on Wednesday, purportedly announced consensus candidates for the various elective positions in Ekeremor local council without consulting with stakeholders of the party in the affected area,” he said. “I see it as a direct affront on the earlier directive of the President and leader of APC, Muhammadu Buhari, who didn’t mince words when he urged the party leadership in the various states to desist from imposing unpopular candidates that will limit the electoral fortunes of the party in the states.” The APC chieftain said while nothing is wrong with opting for consensus candidates, it should be done in compliance with the 2022 Electoral Act. “This action is also at variance with the laws guiding elections in Nigeria which provides that where a political party opts for consensus as a way of choosing its candidate, written consent of all the aspirants for the position is a prerequisite for the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to recognise such consensus candidates for the particular position,” he said. “As leaders of the APC, our first duty is to win elections, APC Bayelsa’s electoral fortunes have continued to decline. We must close ranks, come together despite our grievances to reposition the party so that in the 2023 elections, APC will serve as a strong alternative for the people of the state in the various elective positions.” “We want to win elections in 2023. APC in Ekeremor is tired of being perpetual contenders in elections without positive outcomes. In 2023, we want to win elections, we have what it takes to win and the leadership of the council will resist any attempt to use enemies of APC in the council to infiltrate our ranks and impose candidates who lack the requisite acceptability to win elections. We will not take that.”