The Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) has cautioned against the importation of foreign mercenaries to fight terrorists in Nigeria. The forum said this in reaction to comments made by Nasir El-Rufai, governor of Kaduna, after the attack on the Abuja-Kaduna train. Over the past few weeks, the northern part of the country has witnessed an increase in the spate of terror attacks, which have led to the killings and abductions of many people. The violent attacks took a brutal dimension on Monday night when gunmen attacked a Kaduna-bound train. Barely 24 hours later, the railway station in the Gidan area of the state was invaded by gunmen. Speaking at the presidential villa on Friday, el-Rufai said he has informed President Muhammadu Buhari that if military actions are not taken against bandits, north-west governors may hire mercenaries to defend their people. Reacting in a statement on Sunday, the ACF warned that “inviting mercenaries to fight our cause must be treated with utmost caution”. Murtala Aliyu, the forum’s secretary-general, said although the frustration of state governors is understandable, any form of fire brigade approach should be avoided. “The Arewa Consultative Forum appreciates the frustration of leaders at the sub-national level, however, we call on the governments, governors, and citizens alike, to avoid any fire brigade approach on any pressing issue that bedeviling the country,” the forum said. “The security of the country rests on the central government and calls for a cursory, calm, implementable and lasting solution. “The new dimension of the terror attacks, in the country, both on human and infrastructure calls for total war. “The authorities may look at the possibility of utilising volunteers, such as the ex-servicemen and women, the civilian task forces, hunters and whatever is available to make every inch of Nigeria habitable and peaceful. “We must appreciate the responsibility bestowed on us by providence as the largest black nation and as a leader on our continent must do everything within our powers to keep Nigeria stable and strong.”