Seyi Makinde, governor of Oyo, says he will support a consensus arrangement to select a presidential candidate for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). According to a statement by Taiwo Adisa, chief press secretary to the governor, Makinde said this on Tuesday when he was visited by four presidential hopefuls — former Senate President Bukola Saraki; Mohammed Hayatu-Deen, former managing director of the now-defunct FSB Bank; Aminu Tambuwal, governor of Sokoto, and Bala Mohammed, governor Bauchi. Speaking on the visit, Makinde said the party will work to ensure the success of a consensus presidential candidate arrangement. “We have discussed behind closed doors the issue of the consensus arrangements we are trying to put together. We did it at the last convention of our party, and that was the first time the PDP was able to achieve bringing in a national chairman for the party through a consensus arrangement,” he said. “We believe we can do it and we also believe that Nigerians will take this party seriously when they know that we are all working together to give to them a president through a process that has everybody’s buy-in — where there is no rancour among the stakeholders. “So, I promise my elder brothers that we will work hand in hand to ensure that this consensus arrangement is successful. “I have also said that, internally, we will ensure that people understand what we are trying to do. And where there is any iota of doubt or confusion, we will put a mechanism in place where it will get addressed almost immediately as we move along.” According to the statement, Saraki said the party must be united and ready to govern in 2023. “We have looked at the country today — the hardship and insecurity which our people are going through — and it is clear that it is only our party, PDP, that can provide a brighter future for this country,” he was quoted as saying. “But we think we ourselves must be ready for government in 2023, by uniting ourselves and being focused. This must not be about our individual interests but that of Nigerians. “Of course, we all have our individual interests to become the president, but we have decided in our meetings that we are ready to subject ourselves to a consensus arrangement. It is not just for one part of the country, but for the PDP as a party. “Whoever emerges will need the support of everybody and we want the foundation to start from that process, and that is why we are here.”