The Secretariat, a group of concerned Nigerians, has endorsed Rotimi Amaechi, minister of transportation, for the 2023 presidency. In a 86-page document unveiled by the group, it said Amaechi has the “intellect, experience and worth ethic” to move Nigeria forward as president in 2023. The transportation minister has not officially declared interest in the 2023 presidential race. In March, Nasir el-Rufai, governor of Kaduna, said Amaechi is interested in becoming president of the country in 2023. “At the time he took office, River state was beset by many challenges including escalating violence, crumbling infrastructure, a dilapidated school system and weary citizens,” the group said. “He brought the experience he had gained as the two-time speaker of the state house of assembly to bear as a governor — building bi-partisan relationships, implementing bold ideas and leading from the front. “As much as Amaechi’s tribe and geo-political zone give him an advantage, he also has the advantage of being a candidate who is a true national figure – recognized all over Nigeria, with friends and allies across the length and breadth
of the country. “Some people vying for office also have recognizable names but are identified so resolutely with their tribe or zone that they cannot be effective national consensus candidates. Few of Amaechi’s contenders have had the same opportunity or share the same disposition that allows him to travel to every state of the federation, forge alliances and build relationships. “Amaechi is both a distinguished public servant and a consummate politician. Even his success as a minister overseeing the high-profile ministry of transportation, owes as much to his deep understanding of politics as to his impressive managerial capabilities. “In a politically charged and complex nation like Nigeria, there is real value in having a politician at the helm. Someone who is able to navigate the murky waters of partisanship, who has the experience
to foresee challenges before they arise
and who simply knows how the game
is played.” The group added that the minister has competitive advantages like track record of achievement, geopolitical consideration and broad and deep experience in governance to succeed Buhari in 2023. Ahead of the 2023 presidential election, several politicians have declared their ambition for the nation’s number one seat. However, it has been speculated that Amaechi may be Buhari’s favoured candidate.