The Lagos police command says it will arraign Toyosi Adesegun, a 20-year-old lady, for giving “false information on rape and kidnap” via Twitter, a microblogging platform. Benjamin Hundeyin, Lagos police spokesperson, stated this on Thursday, in a series of tweets. On Thursday, at 7:15am, Toyosi took to her Twitter handle, @_misteriouss, to make a post about a purported kidnap and rape. “I’m being kidnapped, guys. I’m being raped,” she wrote in a now-deleted post, adding the location and the phone number of the alleged abductor. Shortly after the tweet was posted, it went viral with Twitter users informing the police, while some Lagos residents offered to visit the address she provided. At 7:57am, she posted another tweet, saying the earlier post on the abduction and rape was false. “I tweeted earlier that I was kidnapped and raped. It’s false. I’m so sorry for this. Please stop calling and threatening the number,” she wrote. She also posted two other videos insisting the message was false. “I’m fine. I was not kidnapped or raped. I’m not making this video under duress or anything. Please stop threatening or calling those numbers. I’m okay,” she said in the video. Amid the confusion, officers of the Lagos police command arrived at the house address posted by Toyosi. “We have been at the location for over thirty minutes now. Well meaning Nigerians have commendably shown concern. We will get to the roots of this,” Hundeyin tweeted. Meanwhile, she was said to have later “voluntarily presented” herself to the police for questioning. Giving an update on the case on Thursday evening, Hundeyin said after an extensive police investigation, it was discovered that the 20-year-old lady is a “regular visitor” to Olamilekan Faruk, Ayanfe Ayinde and Olusola Onipede — three men identified as residents of the address Toyosi provided earlier. The Lagos police spokesperson said Toyosi was restrained by the young men from leaving the apartment on Thursday morning, which prompted her to threaten that she would post the tweet if they did not allow her to leave. Hundeyin added that the three men would be arraigned for “wrongful restraint”, while Toyosi would be charged to court for “giving false information”. The lady has voluntarily presented herself at the police station. Questioning is ongoing. We will keep you updated. — SP Benjamin Hundeyin (@benhundeyin) April 14, 2022  After a careful and extensive investigation, it is revealed that 20-year-old Toyosi Adesegun, female, is a regular visitor to Olamilekan Faruk, Ayanfe Ayinde and Olusola Onipede, all male of 78 Obayan Street Akoka. This morning, she was restrained from… — SP Benjamin Hundeyin (@benhundeyin) April 14, 2022  …leaving the apartment by the young men. Toyosi threatened to tweet what she tweeted if she was not allowed to leave. The young men called her bluff and she tweeted. Based on the foregoing, the three men will be arraigned for wrongful restraint,… — SP Benjamin Hundeyin (@benhundeyin) April 14, 2022   …while Toyosi will be arraigned for giving false information. — SP Benjamin Hundeyin (@benhundeyin) April 14, 2022  