The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has won all the 21 seats in the local government election conducted in Adamawa state over the weekend. Isa Shettima, the chairman of the Adamawa State Independent Electoral Commission (ADSIEC), announced the result of the election on Sunday in Yola. Shettima said two parties, the PDP and All Progressives Congress (APC), contested in the election. “Having satisfied the requirements of the law and highest votes score, the candidates of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have won the all 21 local government council elections,” he said. Shettima also commended the residents for their cooperation in ensuring a successful exercise. He also commended the professionalism of the security operatives and other stakeholders during the elections. Certificates of return were also presented to winning candidates on Sunday evening. Speaking on the election in a statement on Sunday, former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar said the PDP’s victory shows that the party is the preferred choice of Nigerians. “The outcome of the weekend’s Local Government Elections in Adamawa State confirms the resurgence of the PDP and the preference of its policies by the citizens,” the statement reads. “The election that produced an overwhelming victory for the PDP was a referendum on the failed policies of the APC, which has only succeeded in increasing the tribe of the poor and jobless. “I congratulate all elected officials of the PDP and urge them to be focused on providing good governance to their people if the support of their constituents is to be assured. “I commend officials of the Adamawa State Independent Electoral Commission (ADSIEC), security agents and the citizens for the peaceful conduct of the polls. “I urge the opposition party to join hands to work as a team in providing much-needed governance and development to the local councils as they are the tier of government closest to the people. “Governor Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri deserves special commendation for having created the conditions precedent for the PDP victory by having conducted two elections in less than three years, granted autonomy and prompt payment of salaries to LGAs, and supporting State Development Areas.”