The Nigerian Youth Parliament (NYP) has called on President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC) to reduce the nomination and expression of interest forms fees by 50 percent for youths interested in elective positions. According to a statement issued on Thursday by Ibraheem Abdullateef, Kwara central representative of the parliament, the NYP said it is aware of a decision by the party to increase the nomination and expression of interest forms fees. The parliament said it is “worried and dismayed” by this development as it is in contrast with its advocacy for a downward review of the fees by 60 percent. “While we understand that funds accrued from the sale of forms for elective offices remain a serious source of funding for its operations, the decision of the party to make young people pay the same fees as more established office-seekers may be unfair and inconsistent with emerging ethos and trend in a modern democracy. It is, in fact, proven that the affordable the fees the more the patronage,” the statement reads. The parliament also said “exorbitant” fees for nomination form mitigates the ambition of over 65 percent of young Nigerians. “It is as clear as the daylight that the economic meltdown in the last three years, occasioned by the recession, COVID-19 pandemic, TwitterBan, and now the ongoing Ukraine-Russia war, affects the businesses and means of livelihood of young people most severely,” the statement reads. “We recall with clarity the statement of President Muhammadu Buhari to the newly- inaugurated leadership led by Senator Adamu Abdullahi not to make the tickets the exclusive preserve of the moneybags. Anything below the 50% reduction may qualify to be a clear inconsistency to the order and the legacy of the Buhari Administration on #NotTooYoungToRun. We beg the NWC and NEC of the party to review and adopt our plea now. “We appeal earnestly to President Muhammadu Buhari and the leadership of the party to review its stand and grant at least a 50% reduction in fees for the nomination form for Nigerian office seekers below 35 years of age in the 2023 elections. It is the ultimate way to reciprocate the love and loyalty of Nigerian youths, display boundless belief in the youth’s constituency, promote inclusion and strengthen our democracy.”