An unconfirmed number of residents have been killed following attacks by gunmen on four villages in Kanam LGA of Plateau state. The attackers were said to have invaded the villages on Sunday afternoon, shooting sporadically and setting buildings on fire. A resident of the area, Danladi Dukup, told NAN that some people lost their lives while others sustained various degrees of injuries. He said many of the villagers have fled their homes for safety following the invasion. Ishaku Takwa, spokesman of operation Safe Haven (OPSH), a military task force maintaining peace in Plateau and environs, confirmed the attack. Takwa, who didn’t confirm the number of persons killed or injured, said troops of the task force have been deployed to the area to restore normalcy. In a statement on Monday by Makut Macham, his spokesperson, Simon Lalong, governor of Plateau, condemned the attacks and directed security agencies to find the perpetrators. “Plateau State Governor Simon Bako Lalong has vowed to make it difficult for terrorists and other criminals to set their bases in any part of the state and use same to launch attacks on innocent citizens,” the statement reads. “Governor Lalong, while reacting to the terrorist attacks on some communities in Kanam and Wase Local Government Areas where many people were killed with houses and properties destroyed, expressed deep regrets over the dastardly act and said he has directed security forces to dominate the area after their initial response which put a stop to the carnage. “He also charged them to go after the fleeing terrorists and ensure that they pay for their crimes. “Lalong, who sympathised with the communities affected, promised them justice as those behind the attacks will not be allowed to go without punishment. “He also directed the State Emergency Management Agency and the Peace Building Agency to immediately visit the areas, assess the situation and provide relief as well as trauma management.” Meanwhile, the attack on the communities came hours after the wife and daughter of the Plateau commissioner for environment were abducted.