David Umahi, governor of Ebonyi state, says his administration will conclude its tenure on May 29, 2023, irrespective of the court order sacking him. Reacting to the appeal court judgement that dismissed the suit filed by Sunny Ogbuoji for his removal as governor, Umahi accused “his enemies” of attempting to oust him through the court. Ogbuoji, candidate of the All Progressives Congress and runner-up in the 2019 governorship election, had filed the appeal on the grounds that Umahi defected from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the APC. But A.O Belgore, the appeal court judge, dismissed the suit for being inconsistent with the constitution and extant laws of the country. A high court in Ebonyi had earlier dismissed the suit. While presiding over the weekly state executive council meeting, Umahi congratulated residents of the state over the judgment and thanked the religious bodies for their prayers. “The enemies have tried using the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the courts but failed,” he said. “They are presently writing all forms of frivolous petitions to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). We will, however, defeat them anywhere they go and would finish strongly.” He declared that God brought his government to power and will never abandon it. “The good thing is that people know that the challenges are a mere storm in a teacup and distractions,” he added. “We will conduct a special praise and worship service on Sunday to thank God for His mercies on the government and the people. We will sing praises unto God because he has turned big in everything that concerns us.” Meanwhile, the court of appeal in Abuja is yet to hear Umahi’s appeal seeking to void the judgment of an Abuja federal high court which sacked him and his deputy from office on account of his defection. Inyang Ekwo, the Abuja federal high court judge, had held that the 393,042 votes polled by Umahi in the March 2019 governorship election belonged to the PDP and cannot be legally transferred to the APC. But the governor had rejected the court judgment.