President Muhammadu Buhari says his government has invested more resources to tackle insecurity than past administrations. Buhari spoke on Thursday when he hosted traditional and religious leaders to iftar at the presidential villa. Addressing the monarchs and clerics, the president said his administration needs the support and understanding of stakeholders in order to deal with the nation’s “complex challenges” and move the country forward. The president lamented the rising insecurity in the country, adding that it has become one of Nigeria’s greatest challenges and all sections of the society need to do their part to confront the situation. “Moving Nigeria forward is a collective responsibility. Leaders at all levels have much to contribute to make Nigeria a better place,” he said. “I will like to make a few references on the issue of security. Today, insecurity is one of the greatest challenges facing Nigeria’s existence. This administration has invested more resources than any other to tackle insecurity. “We have acquired advanced equipment for our armed forces and the police to strengthen their capacity to confront terrorism and banditry. We have made adequate budgetary allocations for security. “Whatever the security agencies request, I make it available to them immediately. But insecurity is a worldwide phenomenon. The cure and the answer is for all sections of society to do their bit and confront the criminals head-on. “The success of our armed and other security forces also depends on intelligence about the activities of bandits and terrorists. It is sad to say that these murderous criminals are succeeding because they have supporters and collaborators that help them with intelligence. Those aiding and abetting terrorists are helping to destroy their own communities. “This situation is frustrating government’s efforts to tackle this problem. Our traditional and religious leaders have a key role to play in terms of improving intelligence gathering about the movement of and activities of criminals in their domains.” The president charged the traditional and religious leaders to “reactivate long existing methods of gathering information about social movements” in their communities. “When this administration took office fully, 18 local government areas were occupied and controlled by insurgent terrorists. But by determined efforts of government and cooperation of local leadership we defeated Boko Haram there. A similar effort is required now for all localities to work in full cooperation with security agents, and Insha Allah, we shall see the back of this problem soon,” he added.