The son of Ibrahim Mamman Tsafe, commissioner of security and home affairs in Zamfara state, has been shot dead by bandits. The assailants reportedly opened fire near the commissioners’ residence, killing his son and three persons, while a few others suffered gunshots wounds. The attack took place on Sunday night in Tsafe town, Tsafe LGA of the state. The armed gunmen were said to have invaded the community around 8:30 pm while locals were observing prayers. Mohammed Shehu, police spokesperson in Zamfara, confirmed the development to TheCable on Monday. Shehu said the command has ordered a discreet investigation to unravel the circumstances behind the attack. “The Commissioner of Police Zamfara State Police Command CP Ayuba N. Elkanah psc(+), early this morning visited Tsafe town to commiserate with families of victims who lost their lives as a result of bandits attack in Tsafe on 3rd April 2022 at about 2030hrs, and also to assess the existing security emplacement of the area with a view to deploying additional re-enforcement that would forestall future attack in Tsafe and its environ,” the statement reads. ”While at Tsafe, the CP condoled the Commissioner for Security and Home Affairs, Rtd DIG Mamman Ibrahim Tsafe and families of other victims that lost their three sons in the attack. ”Recall that, On 3rd April, 2022 at about 2030hrs, while people were observing Isha’i Prayers in Tsafe town, Suspected Armed Bandits on motorbikes came from Eastern outskirt of Tsafe town, shooting sporadically. “Joint Police and other security operatives mobilized to the scene and engaged the assailants in a serious gun battle that forced them to retreat back to the bush. “Unfortunately, three (3) persons including the son of Commissioner for Security and Home Affairs, Rtd DIG Mamman Ibrahim Tsafe were shot dead by the bandits while scampering for their lives, and three (3) others sustained gunshot wounds. “The attack came hours after Police Tactical teams repelled another attack by bandits at the western outskirt of Tsafe and returned normalcy. A policeman who sustained an injury during the encounter was visited by the Commissioner of Police at Yariman Bakura Specialist Hospital Gusau where he is receiving treatment.”