The national leadership of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) has sacked Musiliu Akinsanya, better known as MC Oluomo, as the chairman of the Lagos chapter of the union. The union also announced the dissolution of the administrative council of the Lagos chapter. In March, the NURTW national leadership suspended MC Oluomo over alleged misconduct, insubordination and incitement. Owing to the suspension, MC Oluomo announced the decision of the state chapter to withdraw its membership from the national body of the NUTRW. Subsequently, the Lagos government suspended the activities of the activities of NURTW in the state. The decision on MC Oluomo’s dismissal was contained in a statement issued on Wednesday by Tajudeen Baruwa and Kabiru Ado Ya’u, NURTW national president and secretary, respectively. The national leadership also asked the affected Lagos council members to hand over properties of the state chapter to Seyi Bankole, the Lagos secretary. “It will also be recalled that the National Administrative Council, during its meeting of 15th March 2022, graciously passed a resolution to grant pardon to the suspended state chairman if he shows remorse and tenders unreserved apology to the union,” the statement reads. “However, up till this moment, the suspended state chairman has bluntly neglected/refused to do so, hence, the decision to take decisive action against the Lagos state administrative council by dissolving the same. “On the strength of the above development therefore, all members of the union in Lagos State and beyond, including members of the public are hereby kindly requested to henceforth stop any dealings with members of the dissolved Lagos State Administrative Council on issues concerning the union.” ‘DISMISSAL OF MC OLUOMO IS BASELESS’ Speaking with TheCable, Smart Olayinka, personal assistant to MC Oluomo, said the sack of his principal is “baseless”, adding that there is no official communication to the state council about the dismissal. “There is no official communication yet to the state council. We have seen the reports on social media. That is how the national body does; they will publish the letter on social media first before bringing it to the state council,” he said. “Officially, we haven’t received the letter. That is why I told you that it is baseless.”