Usman Baba, the inspector-general of police (IGP), has reportedly approved the dismissal of nine officers for allegedly planning a strike. In March, reports circulated on social media platforms that some police officers were planning to commence a two-week strike from March 26 over “poor working conditions”. Reacting to the reports, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, acting force spokesman, had asked the public to dismiss the claim. According to a report published by PUNCH on Tuesday, a memo from the force headquarters indicated that nine officers had been dismissed for “planning a strike”. The memo, said to have been addressed to state police commands, reportedly listed the affected officers as two inspectors, five sergeants and two constables. The document reads: “Be informed that following the conclusion of the orderly room proceedings of the undermentioned inspectors, rank and file for the offences of discreditable conduct, improper conduct, breach of confidence, to wit: planning, organising, coordinating industrial strike within the ranks of the Nigeria Police Force; the Inspector-General has approved the dismissal from service of the following: AP/No. 245800 – Insp Nanoll Lamak; AP/ NP 287568 – Insp Amos Nagurah; F/No. 271367 – Sgt Onoja Onuche; F/No. 442680 – Sgt Franklin Agughalau; F/No. 495378 – Sgt Emmanuel Isah F/No. 508168 – Sgt Adesina Ismail; F/No. 508282 – Sgt Osoteku Ademola; F/No. 525839 – Police Constable Ehighamhen Favour Ebele and F/No. 528222 – Police Constable Ubong Inem. “Commissioners of police commands and formations concerned are to warn the men accordingly, to dekit them and eject them from the police accommodation and facilities where applicable and revert accordingly; delete subjects from IPPIS payroll immediately. “The commissioner welfare to delete subjects from police nominal roll accordingly. Treat as very important.” When Adejobi was reached for comments on Tuesday, he said he was not aware of the sack and promised to find out and revert. He had, however, not responded as of the time of this report.