Ahmadu Fintiri, governor of Adamawa, has expressed his support for the proposal of a consensus presidential candidate for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Fintiri spoke on Monday after a visit by presidential hopefuls — former Senate President Bukola Saraki, Mohammed Hayatu-Deen, as well as Bala Mohammed and Aminu Tambuwal, governors of Bauchi and Sokoto, respectively. According to him, the presidential hopefuls need to present a united front to show that they are indeed interested in achieving victory for the PDP. “We the PDP are united in our focus to rescue Nigeria. My colleagues and our leader, the former senate president, have come to confer and have a heart-deep discussion on the way forward for this country and the PDP so that we can take power in 2023,” he said. “They are leaders that I respect. They are leaders that also respect our leader, the Wazirin Adamawa, and they have visited him and had their discussion with him. They are looking at the option of having this consensus. Like they have said, they cannot unite this country if they cannot also unite themselves as aspirants. “I think they deserve our support and deserve the support of Nigerians and I think they are capable and able to rescue this country.” On his part, Saraki, who commended Adamawa PDP members for the party’s victory in the just-concluded local government election, said the presidential hopefuls will work towards reaching a consensus. “We have come to discuss with the governor of Adamawa, a key stakeholder of the party. First, we congratulate his excellency on the victory of the local government elections for the political party. It’s a reflection of the confidence people have in him and the party,” he said. “People of Adamawa have already spoken on their choice of which party to lead this country. And I think that is the message across the country — that it is PDP that they are looking forward to, and we too must get our act together. “That is why we aspirants of the PDP decided to come together and unite and have a consensus approach to the presidency. Yes, we have individual interests, but the interest of PDP is bigger and the interest of Nigeria is bigger. “It’s not just those of us in the north; we are also talking to aspirants in the south so that the party can be united. We are leaving here more determined and encouraged for us to go back and ensure that we have a consensus arrangement that will make the party strong.”