A coalition of some support groups says the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) should elect Bala Mohammed, Bauchi governor, as the party’s presidential candidate because of his track record in governance. The coalition is made up of Arewa Democratic Congress, Oodua Progressive Minds, Middle Belt Front and Niger Delta Patriotic Agents among others. Speaking on Monday at a media briefing in Abuja, Ikenna Ezenekwe, on behalf of the coalition, said Mohammed stands out among the other presidential hopefuls in the party. Ezenekwe said as governor, Mohammed has ensured that the lives of Bauchi residents are safe. “We are not members of any political party. We have, as a matter of patriotism, carried out independent investigations about various aspirants in the two major parties and we are confident to tell you that his excellency, governor Bala Mohammed, stands out among other contestants,” he said. “He is one man that has no corruption case or allegation standing against him anywhere. In fact, he has repeatedly invited the public and challenged the anti-graft agencies to advance with any criminal evidence they have against him. “The last time the EFCC detained him for 49 days over a frivolous allegation, they could not prosecute him. And when he sued them, he was awarded N5 million damages against the EFCC. He is the only man with unchallenged social credentials and utmost integrity. “Even as a member of the opposition during the sixth national assembly, senator Mohammed, as a detribalised Nigerian, stood with the senate president, senator David Mark, and propounded the doctrine of necessity, which helped rescue the country from her political quagmire at the time, even when the move favoured Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, a man from the southern region. “As minister for FCT, governor Mohammed brought succour to the people living within Abuja metropolis. His administration did not only bring development to FCT and satellite towns, it also brought an end to the apprehensions in some quarters about their land revocations and demolition of residences and business premises, which were the characteristics of his predecessors. “He is one man who will stabilise this country and deliver us from the throes of insecurity and banditry. As a governor of Bauchi state, he has exemplified this quality by safeguarding his people, even in a volatile north-east region.”