A coalition of civil society organisations (CSOs) has called on the federal government to take urgent steps to fulfil its responsibility of securing the lives of Nigerians. In a statement on Saturday, the CSOs said the escalating attacks and killing of Nigerians in different parts of the country have become worrisome. They said the recent attacks in Kaduna, the Kaduna-Abuja train bombing(pictured) and the insecurity in the south-east show a total collapse of the country’s security architecture despite government claims of defeating insecurity. “We, as civil society organisations and citizen groups across Nigeria note with concern the worsening state of insecurity in Nigeria,” the statement reads. “We, therefore, call on the government to take urgent steps to fulfil its constitutional responsibility of protecting lives and property as enunciated in Section 14 (2) (b) and Section 33 of the 1999 Constitution of Nigeria (as amended); “This call has become necessary in the face of escalating attacks and wanton killing of thousands of Nigerians in different parts of the country. “All of these signal a total collapse of the country’s security architecture. The apparent nonchalance by the government evidenced by its unending fruitless statements raises concerns about its commitment to ending this siege that continually compromises our individual and collective security as Nigerians. “Nigerians are increasingly living in constant fear and are apprehensive of becoming victims of mass atrocities both in public and private spaces. They can no longer sleep at home in peace or travel without fear of being abducted or killed.” The CSOs condemned the refusal of the service chiefs to honour the invitation of the national assembly, adding that it shows their lack of accountability to the people that they have sworn to protect. They also asked that the country reviews its security architecture, build the capacity of intelligence agencies as well as conduct an inquiry into the cause of terrorism and sabotage of government efforts. The statement was signed by Accountability Lab Nigeria; African Centre for Leadership; Strategy & Development (Centre LSD); African Centre for Media & Information Literacy (AFRICMIL); Alliances for Africa. Others are Amaka Chiwuike-Uba Foundation (ACUF); Building Blocks for Peace Foundation (BBFORPEACE); CEE-HOPE Nigeria; Centre for Accountability and Inclusive Development (CAAID); Centre for Community Excellence (CENCEX); Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD), among others.