The Jama’atu Nasril Islam (JNI) has urged Muslims in the country to use the remaining 10 days of Ramadan to pray for good and pious leaders that will lift Nigeria out of difficulty. In a statement on Thursday, which was signed by Khalid Aliyu, secretary-general of the JNI, the Islamic body urged Muslims to intensify prayers to take Nigeria out of poverty, hunger, other ills affecting the country. JNI said the last 10 days of Ramadan fasting are very important, and as such, Muslims should take advantage of the opportunity to pray for quality leaders as the country prepares for the 2023 elections. “This year’s Ramadan came in a difficult time, as the nation is bedevilled with multifaceted challenges, ranging from insecurity to abject poverty, incessant inflation, thus making life difficult for the common people,” the statement reads. “Despite these challenges, we say Alhamdulillah as the Ummah slowly pulled through to the ending days of Ramadan. “We pray Allah (SWT) shall continue to make life much easier for us and heal Nigeria of all its ailments. Amin. “It should be noted that the last ten days of Ramadan comes with the best of nights in the history of the world, as confirmed by various Ahadith. “The JNI is therefore using this auspicious occasion to urge the Ummah to intensify prayers for self, immediate families, neighbours, the government and leaders at all levels. “We should fervently pray to Allah, the Most High, for emancipation from the pangs of insecurity, poverty, hunger, diseases and all other ills distressing us, our societies and the nation at large. “On the other hand, as the 2023 general election is drawing closer, we should use the Ramadan period, especially these last ten days, to cry out to Allah (SWT) for rancour-free electioneering, as well as free, fair and peaceful elections. “We should use these days to persistently pray to Allah (SWT) to give us good and pious leaders that will lead us out of the unfortunate conundrum Nigeria has found itself, to a prosperous future. We should pray, pray and pray!” The JNI also urged wealthy Muslims to increase their generosity by supporting the needy, “as every act of kindness is fully noticed and reciprocated by Allah (SWT) in manifold”. “The last ten days of Ramadan are for thoughtful introspection, sober reflections, as well as intensification of efforts geared towards attaining forgiveness, acceptance, mercy and all the good things promised by Allah, the Most High,” the group added. Many Muslims around the world spend the last 10 days of Ramadan in seclusion (i’tikaf), during which one solely focuses on worshipping Allah and refrains from involvement in worldly affairs. Laylatul Qadr, the night of decree or night of power, takes place in the last 10 days of Ramadan and is significant of the period when the Qur’an was revealed to the Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him). 