Jand2Gidi Worldwide (J2G), a Lagos-based logistics company, has explained how it digitised its operations to help facilitate seamless deliveries amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Ujama Akpata and Kikelomo Fola-Ogunniya, co-founders of Jand2Gidi, spoke during a recent media parley in Lagos. The entrepreneurs said the company had initially relied on manual processes, which limited the number of customers they could accommodate. But the onset of the pandemic necessitated them to automate all of the company’s operations. “The brand is ready to integrate into vendor’s websites through APIs – Application Programming Interface,” the co-founders said. “This means the Jand2Gidi new platform can effectively interpret and capture customer data.” Fola-Ogunniya said the development enabled the brand to scale from where they were to accommodate more businesses, corporates and individuals. She added that the company has continued to stay true to its unique selling point which is “to bring excitement to logistics.’’ Speaking on challenges, Akpata said the business had faced several difficulties ranging from issues with the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), foreign exchange supply shortfalls, as well as “policies that keep springing up on a daily basis”. “Also ,we were in a male-dominated industry. When we started in 2013 there weren’t a lot of females doing business, so we faced a lot of resistance when we started,” she added. During the parley, there was also a discussion about insurance and the brand’s stance on it. According to Akpata, “We (J2G) always encourages its customers to take on insurance.” “It is something that we partner with insurance companies about – from shipping items from the UK, US, Canada – we have marine insurance; even locally all our goods that are in transit and for our staff who are working both in house and on the roads as well.’ On plans, Akpata said the company is looking to expand to Ghana, Kenya, and Europe, as well as open more hubs in Lagos and Nigeria. The co-founders also said they are sourcing funds through alternative financing options. While projecting a positive future for the African logistics sector, they said Jand2Gidi is open to growing even more with the help of investors and partners.