Nigeria on Monday recorded 22 COVID-19 infections. Here are five updates about the pandemic this Tuesday. Japan health ministry panel approves Novavax COVID vaccine Japan’s health ministry panel has approved the Novavax COVID-19 vaccine. When full approval is granted, the vaccine will become Japan’s fourth COVID shot. The Japanese government said it will buy 150 million doses of the Novavax recombinant protein type vaccine which is to be produced domestically. Second global COVID-19 summit to be held on May 12 A second global COVID summit is expected to be held on May 12. The summit, which will be held virtually, will focus on efforts to end the pandemic and prepare for future health threats. “The emergence and spread of new variants, like Omicron, have reinforced the need for a strategy aimed at controlling COVID-19 worldwide,” a joint statement by the White House and a group of 20 nations read. “We know we must prepare now to build, sustain, and finance the global capacity we need, not only for emerging COVID-19 variants but also future health crises”. Study: 99 percent residents of Indonesia’s most populous island have COVID antibodies A study says almost all residents of Java, Indonesia’s most populous island have antibodies against COVID-19. According to the government-commissioned research, this is due to a combination of prior infection and vaccination against the virus. The study which was conducted in March showed 99.2 percent of the study population had COVID antibodies, up by six percent from a December survey. Budi Gunadi Sadikin, health minister, said the survey shows that holidays “can go smoothly without bringing negative impacts on our people”. Nigeria logs 22 COVID infections Twenty-two COVID-19 infections have been recorded across the country. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), in its update for April 18, said the infections were logged in three states and the federal capital territory (FCT). Lagos recorded 10 infections, followed by Nasarawa with six cases while the FCT and Rivers reported three cases each. Thirty-two persons were discharged after they recovered from the infection, according to the agency’s data. No deaths were reported leaving the total fatality figure at 3,143. The NCDC said the report includes data on April 16 and 17. Nigeria now has a total of 255,670 confirmed cases and 249,879 recoveries. US judge invalidates mandatory mask mandate on planes, trains A federal judge in Florida has ruled that a US government order mandating people to wear masks on public transportation is unlawful. US health officials, had last week, extended by 15 days the mandate requiring travellers to wear masks on aircraft, trains, and taxis, citing the need for more time to examine the impact of a recent increase in COVID-19 cases. Ruling on Monday, Kathryn Kimball Mizelle said the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) had exceeded its jurisdiction with the order, had not sought public feedback, and had not fully explained the decision.