Anyim Pius Anyim, former senate president, says one of Nigeria’s greatest challenges is lack of a consensus governance system acceptable to all. The presidential hopeful said this on Wednesday while addressing some members of the national working committee (NWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at the party headquarters in Abuja. He said having served as a former senate president and secretary to the government of the federation, he qualifies to lead the country to peace and prosperity if elected president. Anyim said he will address Nigeria’s problems through three paths: political, economic, and social integration, all of which will result in a greater country. “In formulating political policies for greater Nigeria, my administration shall take into consideration the following challenges of our time,” he said. “The greatest challenge of our nationhood today is the lack of consensus on the structure of our nation, governance system and national ideals or aspiration. “I make bold to say that the absence of consensus on these areas accounts for the disunity and mutual suspicion that threaten our country today. “Lack of consensus on the ideals or dream of the nation and indeed lack of consensus on the governance system that is acceptable to all in this nation. “Today in our country we are still talking about the structure of our nation. Today, we are still querying the presidential system, and parliamentary system; some are still saying we should have a homegrown system and all that. “Today it appears we have lost it all. We have nothing we are pursuing as a country. We have no national dream; we have no ideals; we have no set goals that we try to achieve. “ Anyim said he is a loyal foundation member of the party, adding that he should be allowed to fly the party’s presidential ticket in 2023. “Mr chairman, my experience qualifies me for this job, my cognate capacity is proven, my knowledge of our country is profound, and my nationalistic position has been established,” he said “Chairman, the only request I am placing on the table today is that if you give me this ticket of the PDP to fly the flag of this party for the general election 2023, I will go ahead to win that general election. “I will return to government as president of Nigeria. I will continue with the good works PDP has been doing.”