The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has demanded an independent judicial enquiry into the Nigerian Air force aircraft disaster. The two officers — Abubakar Alkali and Elijah Karatu — were killed in the aircraft crash which took place at NAF Base, Kaduna state. In a statement released on Wednesday, Debo Ologunagba, PDP spokesperson, described the incident as one of the country’s “incessant unexplained military aircraft crashes in the country in the last seven years”. According to the opposition party, the country’s “pattern” of military aircraft disasters demonstrates sabotage to national security. “The disturbing trend is the fact that after each crash, the APC government comes up with a public announcement to investigate the circumstances surrounding the mishap but typical of the administration, such investigation went cold,” the PDP said. “This pattern gives credence to the strong suspicion among Nigerians that there is complicity or sabotage in our national security architecture including the Airforce which is very critical to any meaningful fight against terrorism. “It is instructive to note that our nation has experienced no fewer than 11 unexplained military air crashes since the Muhammadu Buhari-led APC government took over power in 2015. “The PDP demands a system-wide independent judicial enquiry to conduct an investigation into the remote and immediate causes of these incessant crashes of our military aircraft especially in the face of worsening terrorism attacks in our country. “This demand is imperative and consistent with the demands by Nigerians who have lost faith in the ability of the APC government to conduct a transparent and credible investigation into any matter, particularly those relating to our national security. “Our party is saddened with this trend of event and hereby condoles with the Nigerian Air force, the families of the officers involved in the air crash and prays for the repose of the souls of the departed officers.” The opposition party asked military personnel not to be discouraged by the incident but to remain focused on their constitutional duty.