Nigeria on Wednesday recorded nine COVID infections. Here are five updates about the pandemic this Thursday. WHO selects Biovaccines Nigeria Ltd for mRNA technology transfer training The World Health Organisation (WHO) and the Medicines Patent Pool (MPP) have chosen Biovaccines Nigeria Limited (BVNL) as one of 14 manufacturers that will benefit from the mRNA technology transfer initiative. BVNL is a joint venture between the federal government and May & Baker Nigeria Plc. “This global initiative, supported by WHO, MPP and partners, is designed to encourage the sustainable development of mRNA vaccines and therapeutics against COVID-19 and other diseases that threaten low- and middle-income countries,” WHO and MPP said in a joint statement. COVID-19: Africa must invest in health security to prevent future pandemic, says GHSS The Global Health Systems Solutions (GHSS) says Africa must invest in health security in order to detect and prevent disease outbreaks like the COVID=19. Speaking at a workshop on Wednesday, Patrick Njukeng, executive director of GHSS, said the continent must build surveillance and public-health responsiveness to tackle future outbreaks. “If we sufficiently invest in commodities to ensure our health security, we will position the region well to detect and prevent outbreaks. The private sector is well equipped to extend the reach and capacity of the public health role that Africa CDC is serving in the community,” he said. Nigeria records nine COVID infections Nigeria has recorded nine new COVID cases. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), in its update for April 20, 2021, said the nine infections were logged in the federal capital territory (FCT) and Lagos, respectively. Seven persons were discharged after they recovered from the infection. The NCDC data showed no death recorded, leaving the COVID fatality at 3,143. The agency said the report includes data for April 19 and 20. Nigeria now has a total of 255,679 infections and 249,886 recoveries. US justice department to appeal order stopping mandatory mask mandate on planes, trains The US justice department has announced it will appeal a ruling that overturned a federal order requiring passengers to wear masks on aircraft, trains, and other kinds of public transportation. Anthony Coley, the justice department’s head of public affairs, disclosed this in a tweet on Wednesday. TheCable had reported how a federal judge in Florida ruled that the order mandating people to wear masks on public transportation is unlawful. COVID: Local vaccine production now matter of national security, says Buhari President Muhammadu Buhari says local vaccine production has become a matter of national security. The president said the impact of COVID-19 on the national economy and communal life is a reminder that the wealth of a nation is dependent on the health and wellbeing of its citizens.