Abdulrasheed Akogun, member of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in Kwara, says the state has not recorded significant developments since the return of democracy in 1999. Speaking with journalists in Ilorin, capital of the state, the SDP chieftain said Kwara has been “unfortunate” with the set of leaders in charge. “Kwara has been unfortunate with the set of leaders it has selected to pilot its affairs at various levels,” he said. “Most of the leaders have placed selfish, group and sectional interests over and above the general interests and that is why more than two decades after the return of democracy in 1999, Kwara is still crawling, while its contemporaries, and even those created decades after it, have all started the sprinting.” The Kwara state house assembly hopeful, however, said there are “patriotic and competent Kwarans home and abroad” who have not had the opportunity to govern the state. “We have more than enough ingredients to make Kwara great. Our biggest problem is that we are a sheepfold without a shepherd,” he said. “The day we manage to have the right shepherd at the helm across the board, our development will be so accelerated, it would be hard to believe that it is the same Kwara. Yes, a new Kwara is possible. “After rigorous consultations starting from my family (immediate and extended), political and traditional leaders, civil society organisations and other partners in nation-building, I am convinced beyond reasonable doubt that I have landmark contributions in berthing a Kwara that truly works for all. “Share/Oke-Ode constituency with no fewer than 250 villages, all of which are suffering from decades of lack of governmental intervention in developmental projects. “This constituency, suffers huge infrastructural deficit ranging from the poor road network, lack of access to pipe-borne water, and lack of access to quality healthcare among other necessities of life. “Having realised that the brainbox of democratic governance is the legislative arm, whose actions and inactions have a direct impact on all other arms, and tiers of government, I have decided to throw my hat into the ring to contest for a seat at the Kwara State House of Assembly, representing Share/Oke-Ode constituency of Ifelodun local government area of Kwara State, under the banner of the Social Democratic Party (SDP).”