Ladan Bosso, Flying Eagles head coach, has listed 40 players for the upcoming WAFU B U20 Championship. The squad list was announced in a statement on the website of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF). Bosso named four goalkeepers, 12 defenders, 17 midfielders, and seven forwards as the team opens camp for the age-grade tourney billed for Niamey, capital of the Niger Republic, next month. Emmanuel Ogbole, who featured in the maiden edition of the Higher Institutions Football League (HiFL), also made the list. The attacker was significant for the UAM Tillers of the University of Agriculture, Markurdi, as they won the 2018 HiFL title. Riding on his performance in the league, Ogbole was enlisted in the Nasarrawa United feeders team in the Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL), where he would later join FC Basira in the Nigeria National League (NNL). Speaking on his invitation, Ogbole expressed gratitude to HiFL for the exposure that led to his eventual call-up into the national team. “Thank you all, and thanks for HiFL for the exposure. When I got to the pitch, I felt so relaxed cause HiFL made it so. Thanks once again. Love you all,” he said. The invited players have reported to the Blue Spring Hotel, Abuja, before proceeding to the tourney scheduled to begin from May 7 to 20. The Flying Eagles are in Group B alongside Ghana and Burkina Faso, while Niger, the host, will play Cote d’Ivoire, Togo, and Benin Republic in Group A. Only the two finalists will qualify from the WAFU B zone to participate in the 2023 Africa Cup of Nations. ALL THE INVITED PLAYERS: Goalkeepers: Orya Joseph (Lobi Stars); Nathaniel Nwosu (Water FC); Jimoh Saheed (Adoration FC); Chijioke Anianboso (Giant Brillars) Defenders: Njoke Augustine (Abia Warriors); Gabriel Adewara (Ikorodu United); Babaji Abubakar (Niger Tornadoes); Okoli Augustine (Giant Brillars); Hassan Shuaibu (Smart City); Uzochukwu Ezeobi (Zamfara United); Opeyemi Omoloye (Amure City); Frederick Benjamin (ABS FC); Monsuru Oyinmade (A&A Academy); Adegbite Emmanuel (Enyimba FC); Bolu Shotimade (Akwa United); Adamu Saidu (Water FC) Midfielders: Anas Hassan (Vandrezzer FC); Okeowo Oluwaseyi (3SC); Shehu Sada (Nasarawa United); Promise Harrison (SuperStars Academy); Lawal Samson (Katsina United); Clinshak Longba (Plateau United); Aminu Muhammad (Gombe United); Abdulmajeed Ibrahim (Global FC); Onuche Ogbelu (FOSLA Academy); Jejeko Ola (Coment FC); Hussaini Garba (Maikunkele FC); Divine Nwachukwu (Adoration FC); Sulaiman Kirki (Kebbi United); Munir Idris (Niger Tornadoes); Aminu Yahaya (Nnewi United); Tolulope Simon Ojo (Remo Stars); Muhammad Sambo Shehu (Katsina United) Forwards: Emmanuel Ogbole (FC Basira); Ifeanyi Ogba (Lobi Stars); Sopurochukwu Kelechi (HP Academy); Henry Ndubuisi (Cydos FC); Ibrahim Yahaya (Gombe United); Aliyu Abdullahi (Nasarawa United); Ahmed Abdullah (HP Academy)