The UEFA Champions League (UCL) quarter-finals have come and gone, with the quartet of 13-time winners Real Madrid, former champions Liverpool, less fancied giant-killers Villarreal and favourites Manchester City progressing to the semi-final. All four quarter-final ties provided spectators and fans globally with enough memories to relive and TheCable looks back at key, game-changing moments experienced in two weeks of adrenaline-pumping, eye-popping football spectacle. Karim Benzema humbles, then breaks Chelsea’s hearts Benzema was observing his Muslim fast on the day of the first leg against Chelsea at Stamford Bridge but ended the night with a hat-trick of predatory, instinct-driven goals that threatened Chelsea’s UCL title defence. The 34-year-old Frenchman scored two headers and pounced on goalkeeper Edouard Mendy’s mistake to make it 11 UCL goals this season and put Real Madrid in pole position to advance. A week later, the leading scorer for Los Merengues was at the races again with his 12th goal, delivering a crushing blow to Chelsea’s wonderful display at the Santiago Bernabeu with another header in extra-time, lifting Real to a 5-4 aggregate victory over the Blues. Chelsea will not forget Benzema’s role in ending their UCL title defence in seasons to come. Luka Modric with ageless passing artistry Still in a tie that gave fans everything from joy to despair, then wild jubilations, another moment that stood out was Luka Modric’s assist to resurrect a slumbering Real Madrid that had conceded three goals at home despite holding a seemingly healthy two-goal advantage from the first leg. The little Croatian magician, at 36 years old and under pressure from a sea of Chelsea players, spotted Rodrygo’s run before planting a perfect cross with the outside of his boot to break Chelsea’s euphoric performance up until that magical moment. While many players have provided similar assists in years past, the audacity of Modric to do the unthinkable in that sequence of play and with Real Madrid looking at a shameful exit makes it a standout moment. Another Balon D’Or, please? Phil Foden provides Man City inspiration Manchester City, English Premier League (EPL) champions, have been playing with the aura of an all-conquering side in this season’s UCL and Pep Guardiola’s side are never short of goals. They however came stuck against a sturdy Atletico Madrid defence and needed inspiration from somewhere, step up Phil Foden. The 21-year-old England international, a favourite student of Guardiola, displayed the confidence others lacked by running towards the Atletico defence with the ball at his feet before setting up Kevin De Bruyne for the goal that ultimately decided the tie. The Cityzens could do with more going into the next round. Chukwueze slays Bayern Munich Super Eagles’ Samuel Chukwueze is known for his blistering pace and dribbling abilities, and under Unai Emery’s management has turned into an impact player, no thanks to bouts of injuries this season. The 22-year-old provided his best impact yet with the goal that sent Bayern Munich crashing out of the UCL. Chukwueze combined all of his aforementioned attributes to finish off a lightning-quick counterattack in the dying minutes of the second leg, breaking German hearts at the Allianz Arena in Munich. Liverpool is next as less-fancied Villarreal looks to emulate Jose Mourinho’s 2004 FC Porto side. RESULTS Bayern Munich (0) 1-1 (1) Villarreal (Villarreal advance 2-1 on aggregate) Real Madrid (3)2 -3 (1) Chelsea (Real Madrid advance 5-4 on aggregate) Atletico Madrid (0) 0-0 (1) Manchester City (Man City advance 1-0 on aggregate) Liverpool (3) 3-3 (1) Benfica (Liverpool advance 6-4 on aggregate)