The Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) has redeployed 46 senior officers — five assistant corps marshals and 41 corps commanders. Bisi Kazeem, the FRSC spokesperson, in a statement on Friday, said Boboye Oyeyemi, the corps marshal, approved the redeployment. According to the statement, the redeployment followed the recent approval of the promotion of senior officers by the commission and the need to strategically reposition the officers for optimal performance. Kazeem added that the officers are expected to report to their new commands on or before May 2, 2022. “The redeployed senior officers are Chidi B Nkwonta fwc, former Zonal Commanding Officer, RS6HQ Port Harcourt, to take over as the Commandant, Federal Road Safety Corps Command and Staff College (FCSC), Udi, Enugu State; ACM Chukwuma N. Njoku, formally Corps Commander Personnel under Admin and Human Resource Department at the national headquarters, to now head Manpower Development unit under Training Department, National Headquarters; Ocheja I. Ameh, fsi, former Sector Commander, Ekiti, now posted to become the Zonal Commanding Officer, Enugu; ACM U.I. Ojeamiren, former Deputy Commandant, FRSC Academy, Udi, now Zonal Commanding Officer, Osogbo; while ACM Jonathan Aderole Owoade, the erstwhile Sector Commander, Kwara, now heads Port Harcourt Zonal Command,” the statement reads. “Ten states will now have new Sector Commanders as follows; Corps Commander (CC) Kaugama M. Kabo, former Sector Commander, Sokoto, now Sector Commander, Yobe, while CC D.Y. Dio, fsi is to proceed from Yobe to take over as Adamawa State Sector Commander. “In the same vein, CC Y.K. Nadabo is to hand over the helm of affairs as CC LGA Station Office at the Operations department of the national headquarters and assume duty as the Sector Commander, Sokoto state; while Borno state gets CC I.U. Boyi as the new Sector Commander.” Other redeployed officers include I. Abubakar, now Benue state sector commander; Ubi Ushiet, now Delta state sector commander; O.E. Joseph, now Ekiti state sector commander; F.A. Ogidan, now Kwara state sector commander; and S.E. Dawulung, now Plateau state sector commander. According to the statement, Oyeyemi urged the officers to remain steadfast in dedication to their duties and remain committed to the FRSC’s vision of making Nigerian roads safer for motorists.