President Muhammadu Buhari says efforts are being made to tackle challenges that undermine businesses and investments in the country. The president said this on Friday while receiving Aliko Dangote, chairman of Dangote Industries Ltd, and his board members in Abuja. In a statement issued by Femi Adesina, the president’s spokesperson, Buhari said the challenges in transportation and energy will continue to attract attention for a reversal. He urged entrepreneurs and investors to channel their ideas and resources into areas of the economy that stimulate growth, with a long-term effect on job creation and poverty reduction, assuring that fixing infrastructure remains his top priority. “I am keenly aware of the many challenges in the business environment and the investment climate despite the sustained efforts by this government to bring about improvements,” he said. “I want to assure you, however, that the government will do everything possible to enhance the development of infrastructure, especially in the energy and transportation sectors. “We will also continue to implement needed reforms in the public service to significantly improve the ease of doing business.” Speaking on his recent commissioning of the fertiliser plant, Buhari lauded Dangote for always investing in areas that bring the highest benefits to Nigerians. He added that the project was a critical boost to efforts at achieving food sufficiency. “I recall, with great pleasure, my visit to the Dangote Free Zone just about four weeks ago, to commission the Group’s new three million metric ton fertilizer plant. Let me, once again, congratulate you and your board on a very successful commissioning ceremony,” he said. “As I said at that event, the coming on stream of this plant was a huge opportunity to ramp up the productivity of our agricultural sector. It is, therefore, a most welcome booster to our government’s strategy for achieving food security and reducing poverty. “Given recent developments globally, especially the effect of the ongoing war in Europe on the worldwide food supply chain, I must commend your foresight for bringing the plant into operation at the time you did. “I note that market realities will bring pressure to bear on Dangote Fertiliser Limited is seeking to meet the demands of your export customers. “However, given your group’s well-known patriotic vision, I am confident that your board will continue to accord priority to meeting local demands of our farmers.’’ The president further acknowledged Dangote Group’s interventions initiated not only to help resolve business challenges but also to encourage continued investment in the economy for the benefit of Nigerians. He said entrepreneurs like Aliko Dangote “are unique gifts to their societies and the institutions they build, and they often become the pillars of stable enduring prosperous economies”. “I, therefore, urge other Nigerians in the business sector to emulate this iconic entrepreneur by investing in such enterprises that will in time become worthy legacies as national assets which will continue to benefit their people for generation after generation, creating firm anchors of enduring prosperity for their citizens,” he said. On his part, Dangote said the company will continue to hold on to the President’s mantra on the economy to “produce what we consume and consume what we produce’’. He added that the Dangote Group will always make significant contributions to the growth of the economy as they look forward to Buhari’s return to commission the oil refineries and petrochemicals project. “Through the outputs of our various businesses, our Group is proud to be making significant contributions to the diversification and growth of our nation’s economy, which is second only to the federal government in the size of our workforce.”