Ibinabo Joy Dokubo, a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has indicated her interest to run for the office of president in 2023. She is the first female presidential aspirant in the ruling party. Speaking at her declaration ceremony on Wednesday in Abuja, Dokubo said she would improve on the progress made by President Muhammadu Buhari‘s administration. The aspirant said security, education and agriculture are some of the areas she would prioritise if elected president of the country. “I stand before this great gathering to declare my intention to run for the office of the president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria under our great party, the All Progressive Congress (APC) come 2023,” she said. “As we can see, for the past seven years, our great party has performed tremendously well in all the sectors but the constant insecurity that has been witnessed in all parts of the country especially the north-east and the north-central has made Nigerians not to see our overwhelming achievements. “Look at the overwhelming infrastructural developments in the roads, railway sector, just to mention but a few. In today’s Nigeria, there is no state in the country that is not witnessing road construction under our great party, the APC. “I will build on the infrastructural development being witnessed by my party, the APC. I will ensure that once these roads are constructed they are regularly maintained to avoid total collapse. Also, as regards the rail construction, I will make sure we link up the rail lines to all the six geo-political zones to reduce the burden of moving heavy trucks by the roads instead of the rail. “As a true Bakana, Kalabari, Rivers and Ijaw girl, I will connect the riverine areas to the city.” The aspirant said she plans on establishing “Neighborhood Watch” as a measure to tackle the security challenges confronting the country. “I will make Nigerians realize that if given the mandate other measures that I want to put on ground to ensure that lives and properties are secured will not be disclosed elaborately here because of security reasons,” she said. “I will give education priority by making it free for all including the less privileged.”