The 81 division of the Nigerian Army in Lagos says it has arrested suspected impostors, who dress in camouflage outfits and extort motorists in the state and neighbouring Ogun. The impostors, the army said, were arrested during an operation organised by the division. Olaniyi Osoba, spokesperson of the division, in a statement on Wednesday, said Umar Musa, the general officer commanding (GOC) of the division “dispelled the unfounded narrative that all illicit acts committed by persons dressed in military uniforms are always military personnel”. The GOC was said to have explained that persons displaying military banners and accoutrement such as belts and stickers on vehicles and driving commercial vehicle in military uniform or driving vehicles painted in army colours are “most often” not personnel of the Nigerian Army. In an effort to curtail the trend, the division was said to have heightened the activities of ‘operation checkmate’ to ensure regular arrest of impostors and offenders within the division area of responsibility. “The GOC disclosed that over 150 impostors have been arrested from January last year till date,” the statement reads. “Major General Musa during the parade of the suspected impostors explained that preliminary investigation revealed that some of suspects specialised in mounting road block along Ajah road to extort money from motorists as well as indulge in other illegal duties while dressed in Nigerian Army camouflage uniform. “Similarly, the GOC said there are some arrested fully dressed in military uniform who were caught along the Ilaro border area of Ogun State where they carry out smuggling of rice and other contrabands. “The GOC said the arrested impostors would be handed over the Nigeria Police for further action. “He therefore urged members of the public to desist from wearing military uniform and T-Shirts, display of military banners, belts and stickers on vehicles as well as driving of civil vehicles painted in army colour. “He further implored members of the public to continue to support the Division’s Operation Checkmate by providing information to the nearest Nigerian Army formations or units as part of efforts to rid Lagos and Ogun States off criminal elements who are bent on tarnishing the highly revered image of the NA. “The GOC thanked members of the press for their efforts in objective reportage of activities of the NA.” It is against the law for persons not serving in the armed forces to wear military uniform — camouflage attire is considered part of the military uniform.