BY FEJIRO JOHNSON Precise. Concise. Six minutes, 59 seconds of brilliant oratory and delivery, of hope and great expectations, of a nation with great potential, people and promise. This is what Prof. Yemi Osinbajo presidency promises, and I can bet the house that he will deliver the Nigeria of our dreams in the next few short years. Service: I have served as vice-president under a true Nigerian patriot, a servant of the nation in war and peace and a man of integrity, President Muhammadu Buhari: As vice-president for the last seven years, Osinbajo has certainly garnered enough experience to become the number one. First of all, he has been adjudged as a loyal deputy to President Muhammadu Buhari. On a few occasions, Buhari had handed over constitutional power to Osinbajo and the latter performed creditably well. In 2015, the Buhari administration came with a three-pronged mandate to fight corruption, and improve security and the economy. But it was also dealt with a shorthand, first Nigerian government to survive two recessions and a COVID-19 pandemic that reduced global economies, even as it tackled insurgency in the North-East. Nevertheless, with a loyal and dependable VP like Osinbajo, much touted as the engine room of the administration, the Economic Sustainability Plan (ESP) which the VP chaired, helped Nigeria exit the second recession during the pandemic, among many other government initiatives Osinbajo spearheaded. Competence: I have served the government in several capacities, and I have, at the direction of Mr President, represented our country in sensitive high-level international engagements. If there is anything even Osinbajo’s loudest critics and traducers would agree on, it is on Osinbajo’s competence. He has shown it in different capacities. The VP’s engagements in the Niger Delta, on behalf of the president in 2017, birthed the Niger Delta’s new vision of the administration that has led to peace and development the previously neglected region continues to enjoy to this day. He is competent enough to fix things in Nigeria. Patriotism: I have visited our gallant troops in the north-east and our brothers and sisters in the IDP camps. I have felt the pain and anguish of victims of violent conflicts, terrorist attacks, flooding, fire and other disasters. Following the #EndSARS protests, Osinbajo’s intervention led to the establishment of state judicial panels nationwide to address injustice and compensate victims of extrajudicial killings and police brutality. Also, Osinbajo’s direct involvement and passion to see the lives of children affected by insurgency improved led to the establishment in 2017 of the North East Children’s Trust which provides education, care and support services to children affected by the insurgency in Adamawa, Borno and Yobe States. Since then, about 154 children have graduated from the school and now have the hope of a better life. Osinbajo, in a few words, shows that he will deliver on education, healthcare, security and much more for Nigeria. Call to service as a divine mandate: I believe that the very reason why the Almighty God gave me these experiences, these insights, and these opportunities, is that they must be put to the use of our country and its great people. Becoming president is not a personal life ambition for Osinbajo. At every point in his decades of public service, he has always dispatched it with the same consistency in passion, dedication and selflessness. Maybe because he is an ordained pastor of the RCCG. But then, Osinbajo takes on every task as a divine mandate. That’s a man of integrity whose main objective for public office is service to the people. That’s the way it should be. That’s why President Buhari and many others have described him as dependable and trustworthy. Nigeria needs the likes of Osinbajo. Patience is a virtue: With utmost humility, formally declaring my intention to run for the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. If by the grace of God and the will of the people, I am given the opportunity, then I believe that first, we must complete what we have started. While others ran headlong to declare their presidential ambition like it was a ticket that would soon expire. Osinbajo waited for his time and his turn. After wide consultations, including consulting his boss, President Buhari, he chose the right moment to declare. Osinbajo’s declaration speech was the most anticipated declaration ever in the history of Nigerian politics. And it was worth the wait. Buhari’s administration has achieved a lot in terms of infrastructure, and social welfare despite the challenges. Osinbajo’s declaration speech provided a glimpse of the promise of a great Nigeria: if only its leaders can harness the country’s immense potential across all sectors for greatness and prosperity. Harnessing Nigeria’s youth potential: Above all, front and centre of our efforts will be the provision of jobs and opportunities for our young people. Half of Nigeria’s over 200 million people are youths. The country needs a leader that can turn this human capital into development capital. With such deliberate leadership to mine youth potential, Nigeria can truly become the giant of Africa, not only on paper but in reality. Osinbajo has always been tech-savvy and has shown great enthusiasm and passion for tech and youth development. Nigeria needs a modern leader that is conversant with the challenges and promises of its youthful population and has a clear idea of how it should be harnessed. Osinbajo has proven this on several occasions as VP. His direct involvement has attracted global tech investments into the country, and his passion for youth has driven many government-led youth initiatives. Building a new Nigeria: We will be working together, to establish by the grace of God, the Nigeria of our dreams in a few short years. We will build on the foundation laid by our predecessors. We will need to move with much speed, intentionality and perseverance towards the vision of a prosperous, stable, and secure nation. The VP has said it all, literally. Leadership is about service, inclusion and collaboration. Every Nigerian hope to see a better country and we must all join hands to make this happen, and with a leader with Osinbajo’s foresight and dedication to service, Nigeria can become truly great. Great nation: I am convinced beyond doubt that we have the creativity, the courage, the talent and the resources to be the foremost black nation on earth. With great leadership, the country can finally fulfil its great promise. Osinbajo showed that clearly, from his antecedents; this man can surely deliver more than hope. Unity in diversity: Let our tribes become one tribe; the Nigerian tribe, where all are treated fairly, justly and with respect. Where all are given equal access to the abundant opportunities that God has bestowed on this nation. Nigeria needs leaders that can bring all tribes, religions and political divisions together with one common goal, to make a great nation, united for one common purpose. Osinbajo showed that clearly with his declaration speech. No gargantuan promise, just a measure of hope, with a clear pathway to delivery of expectation. That’s what leadership should be. Showing the way things should be done. God bless our country. Johnson is a public affairs analyst and social commentator