Since it was first held in 1957, the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) has provided football lovers with a blockbuster spectacle of highs and lows, in which Nigeria has remained one of the biggest contributors. The African most populous country has won the tournament on three occasions — only bested by Egypt (7) and Ghana (4). With barely less than a week to AFCON 2022, TheCable takes a look at the players who have made Nigeria proud since the 2000 edition of the African football showpiece. Vincent Enyeama Enyeama singlehandedly helped Nigeria win the 2013 tournament with his excellent saves and sharp reflexes. He was one of the stars of the competition. Odion Ighalo Famed for his scoring ability, Ighalo is still revered in his home country and even recently came out of retirement to help the team. He was the top scorer at AFCON 2019. Obafemi Martins Marins, who is fondly called ‘Oba goal’ which translates to ‘king of goals’ in the Yoruba language, was dreaded due to his pace and excellent goals for the Super Eagles at AFCON 2006. Peter Odemwingie The winger/striker established himself as an exceptional player in either position, combining skills with a predatory instinct in front of goal. He impressed Nigerian football lovers during his AFCON debut in 2004. Taiye Taiwo Taiwo was one of the finest attacking left-backs in the history of Nigerian football. He enjoyed fame due to his powerful shots and deadly free-kicks. He was amazing at AFCON’s 2006, 2008, and 2010 editions. Joseph Yobo While Vincent Enyeama is the man credited with leading another era of Super Eagles, Joseph Yobo was also every bit as important to the team’s philosophy. Yobo started as a right-back but was versatile and could handle any role in the defense. He was committed and carried the team on his shoulder. Emmanuel Emenike During his prime, he was a very deadly striker. Emenike brought a new dimension to the game when he led the attack at AFCON 2013. He won the golden boot at the tournament. John Obi Mikel The versatile attacking midfielder holds a unique place in Nigeria’s football history having inspired the team in 2013. Julius Aghahowa Had injury not curtailed his career and forced him to retire at his peak, Aghahowa may well have been mentioned in the same breath as Rashidi Yekini, Yakubu Aiyegbeni, and Odion Ighalo. At the 2000 tournament, he was the jewel in the Super Eagles team. His finest moment came against Morocco and Senegal, with the striker scoring spectacular goals. Jay Jay Okocha In a tight final against Cameroon in 2000, Okocha produced a sublime piece of control when he collected Kanu’s pass, before firing a screamer past Alioum Bouka. His technique was among the finest ever seen on a football field, and his performance at Tunisia 2004 is just one of a number of breathtaking exhibitions of his skills from a glittering career.