BY OGUNTOYE OPEYEMI Israel as a nation with so much glamour, political and religion affiliation has been in the public glare of the world for centuries. Many believed that the country holds a key to various religious sanctimony. Up until recently, we have heard of the famous Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who served for 12 years. Efforts made by various opposition groups to dislodge him were fruitless until the leader of YAMINA, Naftali Bennett decided to form a coalition with Yair Lapid’s party. “I’m announcing today that its my intention to work with all my strength to form a National unity government with my friend Yair Lapid” he said. Prior to the coalition, Naftali Bennett was known as the kingmaker in Isreal after series of successive elections. The Jerusalem Post in February, 2021 wrote a convincing article, wherein the propriety of Naftali the kingmaker being king was analysed, with various dissecting facts. Surprisingly, in June, 2021, Natftali became the prime minister of Isreal bringing an end to the long term reign of Benjamin Netanyahu. According to the Irish Times, in 2005, clerics predicted that Ratzinger would never be a king (pope) because he was a major grande elettore (kingmaker) in the conclave. Notwithstanding all initial resistance from the progressive camp however, he became the pope in the same year. If history has taught us anything, it is to always be conscious of the fact that only God has the absolute power to determine what becomes of our future. If Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s desire is to lead the nation based on his sacrifices, experiences and success rate, no one has the power to stop his aspiration. While Bola Ahmed was seeking the re-election to the governorship seat in Lagos state under the platform of AD, Muhammadu Buhari had a plan to seek his first elective position under the platform of ANPP, which he lost to Olusegun Obasanjo. Buhari didn’t stop there, he went further to recontest the election in 2007 under the same platform and all through the process, he was acquiring millions of supporters as they refered to him as “Mai Gaskiya” (the trustworthy). As at the time he left ANPP, the party had won many seats at the state, senate and house of representatives levels due to his reputation. Infact, his first contest in 2011 under the new party formed by himself and his long term friend, Tony Momoh, won numerous seats at the national assembly level. Should we then conclude that Buhari was a kingmaker who became a king? As his antecedents are more alike with Bola Ahmed Tinubu who also built AC & ACN. Unfortunately, some history are not documented because of the state at which they arise. One among many was the issue of candidacy in 2015 among the major political parties. Even though the PDP had already settled for former President Jonathan, the newly formed opposition party (APC) had 90% of its contestants from northern Nigeria, majority of who were muslims. For months, Nigerians who wanted change and believed in the newly formed alliance were worried of what could come out of the change mantra. The agitation grew when the All Progressive Party confirmed Muhammadu Buhari’s candidacy. The question on the lips of many was – “Who would vote for a Muslim-Muslim candidacy?” That could have been the major setback of the opposition party as Buhari was seen as an ‘Islamic fundamentalist’. Some of the forefront candidates from Ahmed’s camp were also Muslims –Rauf Aregbesola, Babatunde Fashola, Abiola Ajimobi. These were candidates that were doing execellently well in their various states and whose competencies weren’t in doubt by anyone. However, Nigerians wanted a balanced ticket, which was to clear the doubt of some quarters as regards Buhari’s acclaimed religion bias. Surprisingly, Tinubu came out with a name, who is a force today. As at December 2014, 95% of Nigerians haven’t heard of the name Yemi Osinbajo and in two months, more than 70% saw the star presented by Tinubu. That’s one among many stars discovered by the national leader of the All Progressive Congress. In today’s world and in our political atmosphere in Nigeria, one of the reigning strategies is the conspiracy theory. One sure fact however is that God hates it when people deploy false information to stir up trouble in the land. As at the beginning of the life of Jesus, he experienced this first hand from the chief priests and scribes who were assembled by Herod. These people foretold his birth, making it known to Herod that the child will be a “Messiah”. The word “Messiah” in itself was what troubled Herod and made him decide to kill all the newborns in Isreal. His major fear was that a change in political or transcendental might affect him. However, despite all his struggle, he was unable to kill Jesus as a newborn. Deuteronomy 32:39 evidences his deeds – “See now that I myself am He! There is no god besides me. I put to death and I bring to life, have wounded and I will heal, and no one can deliver out of my hand”. There have been various fake news and death threats against Asiwaju but God who has a plan and knows tomorrow kept Hhs silence. Tinubu is still enjoying God’s grace. Buhari would have lost count of the people that wished him dead, prior and during his tenure but the man faced his job and responsibilities squarely. In 2015, Tinubu wasn’t on a ballot, but the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), African Independent Television (AIT) focused their campaign against him. As a true leader, who gave all businesses a free hand to operate in Lagos, he only sued and the court made AIT to apologise to him through all the media platforms in Nigeria. As a true democrat, Tinubu knows the importance of grassroot development. He also understands that to deliver the dividends of democracy across Lagos state, decision making and council need to be located close to the people. An evidence to this was his decision to create additional local council development areas (LCDA). He knew what he wanted and how to get it, so he raised his team (Yemi Osibanjo, Raji Fashola, etc) and took the federal government on because the then president instructed the ministry of finance to withhold the allocation of Lagos state. Surprisingly, Lagos didn’t have only good lawyers, it had a good economic team, with the likes of Sunday Adewusi and others that ensured Lagos didn’t suffer for the Obasanjo-led government’s decision. Today, most states are enjoying the dividends of the same democracy that was kept alive by Tinubu’s vision of creating LCDAs across the board. Most of his critics end up falling in love with him and eventually come around to worship him. The game Asiwaju played during the 2014 merger, which brought about four political parties together is well known but the story that hasn’t been told today is how the second runner up at Teslim Balogun Stadium (former Vice President Atiku Abubakar), eulogised Tinubu, even though he knew that Asiwaju supported Buhari for the primary election. The truth is that Asiwaju’s game of politics and true brotherhood surprised other contestants and till date, earned him much respect across the country. Everyone knows how vocal Baba Ogunlewe, Jimi Agbaje, Musiliu Obanikoro were in Lagos against Tinubu’s style of politics but none of it stopped the progress of Jagaban at any point. Even after they had strived for 19 years, they decided to join the Asiwaju vision. Often time, it has been shown that those that fought him end up serving him when they fail. When you are looking for a strategist, the best in Africa today, Tinubu must be the first candidate. It is easy to win a game with someone whose play you are familiar with. Asiwaju will however never show you his card. He plays it as a surprise. Most politicians across the globe employ media strategists for public image but everything comes to Asiwaju for free by his loyalists because he understands that true election, and winning is inversely related to social media. Our diversity makes us special as a country. Some of the best countries in the world (USA, China, Russia) attained that feat because they embraced their diversity. The first man to be considered a true Nigerian is Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Today, Lagos state is the only state in the country where other tribes are either elected, appointed as local government chairmen, house of assembly members, house of representatives etc. This vision of politics of inclusion is what some governors like El-rufai and Babagana Zulum are trying to adopt i.e. where we all see the beauty in each other and appreciate the ingenuity of different tribes/religions in Nigeria. At this time, when tribalism, religion, and the ethnic feud is extremely high, we need a man on a journey to destiny to manage the crisis and bring us back together. Countless stories have been told on how some democrats fought the military to a standstill. Even though most of them had good lives overseas, they knew “there is never a place like home” and needed to protect this country by taking the power from the military and handing it back to the people. Some used the platform of the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO). One of the chieftains, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu had a good life in the United States of America but the desire to set this country free and ensure it achieves political emancipation was a burning desire for him. This made him and other brilliant minds take on the military and the result is the beauty of democracy we are enjoying today which is the power to choose who to represent the people at the various capacities, be it the executive and the legislative. So, it was to his dismay when he realised that the sweat and labor of great minds were threatened in Edo state when a governor shut down the state assembly. Like others, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu saw the danger and even though he knew some people would hate him for it, he still went ahead to speak the truth. Tinubu is not like others who cower, they speak truth to power to avoid danger and when need be, remind them about why we fought for this democracy, for the people. Like Jesus, every man on a journey to destiny will encounter myriad of problems and conspiracy theories are bound to be set against him. But in all, a fact that cannot be denied is that destiny will be fulfilled. In the history of this country, we haven’t found a man who is well respected across board like Asiwaju as his tentacle spans across the continents. The democracy that we’re enjoying today is a product of the hardwork of many Nigerians which Asiwaju believed in and such is needed right now in Nigeria. 2023 is near, the man on a journey is coming and the conspiracy theories cannot stop him. Oguntoye can be reached on Twitter @equityoyo