Abdul-azeez Adediran, lead visioner of the Lagos4Lagos movement, a political group, says Babajide Sanwo-Olu, governor of Lagos, could have been “more humane” with his handling of the #EndSARS protest. Following the submission of the report of the Lagos judicial panel in November 2021, the government had released a white paper in which it insisted that contrary to the panel’s position, nothing within the context of a massacre took place at the Lekki tollgate. In a new year message broadcast on Saturday, Adediran said the governor could have taken responsibility for the situation and apologised for things that went wrong. “The handling of the #EndSARS protests, the aftermath JPI report, the one week of horror during which our underaged children met their untimely deaths at Dowen College, Badagry and Ojodu Grammar School, all without a single moment of silence that signals empathy and sensitivity on the part of the government are some of the tell-tale signs of a government that really didn’t evolve from the people,” he said. “A more humane approach to any of these crises would have gone a long way to reassure Lagosians. For instance in the #EndSARS JPI report, what I would have done differently would be not to argue on who truly called in the soldiers as the fact remains that soldiers were indeed at Lekki where I am the state chief security officer. “I won’t even bother to join in the debate of whether there was a massacre or not, especially for the fact that even the government’s pathologist confirmed one death in Lekki. That would have been treated as one death too many. “The next thing to do would then be to take responsibility and apologise for all that went wrong under my watch.” Adediran called on Lagos residents to participate actively in the electoral process and elect a government that will put the people first. “The current lame approach to governance by the Babajide Sanwo-Olu government is what we get when we stand back in indifference and allow a paltry 11 percent of the voting population to elect our governor,” he said. “For the past seven years, I have been privileged to champion the promotion of political liberation of Lagos and her residents through the Lagos4Lagos movement. “The movement, peopled majorly by discerning young Lagos residents who are determined to fully exercise their true powers via the ballot come 2023, has become a strong voice for the populace, fated to force the institution of true democracy in Lagos. “The reality is that the upcoming election, especially in Lagos, will be beyond just the party. It will be an election between the status quo and a breath of fresh air. “The only additional ingredient required is for you to move from being a passive commentator on the sidelines and join in our pursuit for a Lagos that works for all, irrespective of tribe or creed. “As we begin a brand-new year, I implore us all to utilise this election eve to get ourselves ready. Get your PVC if you never had one; revalidate your PVC if you have moved location since the last election; convince at least one person to join this moving train. Ensure you make this year count again.”