The Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) has alleged that the “customs area comptroller for Hajj and Cargo Terminal at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos, and an officer forcefully gained access into the security restricted area (SRA) of the airport “. Henrietta Yakubu, general manager, corporate communications, FAAN, disclosed this in a statement on Monday. Yakubu said the security breach occurred last Thursday at about 5:45 pm. The statement alleged that CSC Agunbiade, a customs officer on the area comptroller’s entourage, shoved aside the aviation security (AVSEC) officer at the gate, forcefully took over the gate, and opened the gate before the convoy gained access into the SRA through the gate 3 of the area. It added that the armed escorts of the comptroller threatened to beat up the AVSEC officer ‘if they dare resist assault and breach of security’. “At about 1745hrs on Thursday, January 20, 2023, while the AVSEC officer on day duty at Gate 3 were profiling a NAHCO vehicle that wanted to access the Security Restricted Area (SRA) via gate 3, the Customs Area Controller for Hajj and Cargo Terminal suddenly emerged and pulled off behind the NAHCO vehicle that was being attended to und CSC Agunbiade, a customs officer of the Area Comptroller’s entourage later shoved aside the AVSEC Officer at the gate, forcefully took over the gate and opened the gate for the Comptroller and his escorts to forcefully access the Security Restricted Area via the gate,” the statement reads. “While accessing the gate, the armed escorts to the Comptroller threatened to beat up the AVSEC officer at the gate if they dare resist their assault and breach of security. “This blatant abuse of the privilege of bearing firearms by the NCS has become a recurrent threat to the Safety and Security of our Staff and our operations. “While we keep on working to resolve all our challenges decisively, we hereby urge all stakeholders to please respect our mandate by being of disciplined and Professional conduct in the interest of national security and operational safety.” But reacting through its official Twitter handle, Nigeria Customs said FAAN shows a lack of understanding of the customs role. “Saying that a gate is restricted to Customs in an international cargo airport shows lack of understanding of NCS roles. Could it be that the gate is being made available for Smugglers?,” it tweeted. “The senior officials of both agencies should engage and understand each other’s roles instead of this display of false sense of superiority.” The senior officials of both agencies should engage and understand each other's roles instead of this display of false sense of superiority — NIGERIA CUSTOMS (@CustomsNG) January 24, 2022 