The federal government, on Thursday, inaugurated the governing board of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). In June 2021, President Muhammadu Buhari had constituted the EFCC board — the anti-graft agency had been without a board since 2015 when the present administration came into power. In his remarks at the inauguration, Boss Mustapha, secretary to the government of the federation, advised the board members to avoid corrupt practices. He congratulated the board members on their appointment, and urged them to work towards policies that will contribute significantly to the fight against corruption. “Let me, therefore, congratulate the chairman and members of the governing board on your well-deserved appointments, which is a demonstration of Mr. President’s confidence in your integrity, intellectual abilities and competence to contribute to the realisation of the mandate of the commission,” he said. “You are, however, required to put in your best to combat financial and economic crimes in the country. “The commission is empowered to prevent, investigate, prosecute and penalise economic and financial crimes and is charged with the responsibility of enforcing the provisions of other laws and regulations relating to economic and financial crimes, as well as fight terrorism. “Let me reiterate the fact that governing boards are creations of the enabling statutes of the various institutions, with the main responsibility for giving policy direction to management, in order to contribute towards the developmental goals of government. “I, therefore, expect that all hands will be on deck to generate robust policy initiatives that will help this administration achieve its fight against corruption and revamp the economy. “Similarly, in carrying out your responsibility as board members, you must also eschew corruption totally as the government will not hesitate to sanction all infractions.” Aside from AbdulRasheed Bawa, executive chairman, other members of the board present at the inauguration included, Luqman Muhammad, Anumba Adaeze, Kola Raheem Adesina, and Yahaya Muhammad.