The Lagos government says from Monday, the Marine bridge will be partially closed for the next 10 weeks. According to a statement issued on Sunday by the Lagos ministry of transportation, the repair works will end on April 2. “The Commissioner for Transportation, Dr. Frederic Oladeinde, stated that the partial closure was to allow the Federal Government carry out routine maintenance works on the bridge infrastructure,” the statement reads. “He further explained that the temporary closure of the bridge is in two sections, Apapa Outbound, which will be repaired between 17th January and 9th March, 2022, and the Apapa Inbound section of the bridge scheduled between 10th March and 2nd April, 2022. “Highlighting the alternative routes, the Transport Commissioner stated that traffic outbound Apapa will be diverted to give way for contraflow of traffic between RRS point and Total Bridge, adding that Motorists using lighter vehicles will be diverted to Marine Beach by Mobil filling station to connect Ijora Bridge or make use of service lane by Leventis to connect Naval Dockyard to link Total Under bridge to further their journeys. “For the inbound Apapa Motorists during the second phase of the rehabilitation works, Oladeinde explained that traffic inbound Apapa will be diverted to allow contraflow of traffic between Total Bridge and RRS point. “He also added that Motorists using lighter vehicles will be allowed to descend towards Total Under Bridge and make use of Fire Service road to connect Marine Beach by Mobil filling station, while those heading towards Apapa will make a detour and connect Area B through NAGAFF using Mobil filling station service lane.” In a related development, the state also announced plans to divert traffic on Dopemu Road in the Agege area for three months starting from 10pm on January 21. Oladeinde explained that the closure is to rehabilitate and upgrade the Babajide Sanwo-Olu road, adding that the repair works would be executed in stages starting from the Ipaja road axis. “Motorists inbound Dopemu bridge from the Iyana Ipaja/Alagba axis to go through Ipaja road, to connect Oyewole street into Seriki street,” he said. “This movement would link them to Kolawole and Adebambo streets, to access Adealu road, to their desired destination. “In the same vein, motorists heading toward Dopemu bridge from Ipaja (Oke Koto) are to utilise Markaz road to connect Awori street and link Sarumi Alawo street/Oniwaya and Surulere. “With this, they will continue their journey or alternately, go through Alfa Nla from Old Ipaja road, to connect Oniwaya/Surulere axis to reach the Dopemu Bridge.”