Ali Modu Sheriff, a former governor of Borno state, says he is only interested in contesting the position of the national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Speaking at a media briefing on Friday, Sheriff said he isn’t interested in running for president, but that his aspiration is to lead the APC to electoral victory in 2023. He said the APC, at the moment, requires a national chairman who enjoys massive political goodwill across party lines with the capacity to drive development at all levels. Sheriff added that with enough experience in political party administration, he is strategically placed ahead of other aspirants with the requisite goodwill to lead the APC to victory in the 2023 elections and beyond. While noting the array of aspirants for the APC position, Sheriff said all of them are “eminently qualified” but only one person can have the job. “Please, I want to put it on record today, I am not looking for president. I am looking for APC national chairmanship position so that I can lead a campaign as we did in 2014 to make sure that our father and leader, President Muhammadu Buhari, hands over power to another APC man as a president,” he said. “If I want to be president, I am not afraid of anybody. But I don’t want to be president but the national chairman of the APC. “With the greatest respect and humility, I make bold to declare that I am that person because I have the skills and experience to unite different interests within the party and across the diverse groups in the country.” Sheriff said his desire is to contribute immensely to the transformation of Nigeria, using the APC as a tool to enthrone a better society for all. He added that with the collaboration of government and support of Nigerians, he would promote policies to drive technological development in the country. He commended the APC national progressive women on their just-concluded conference, adding that the conclusions reached at the conference would form part of his “comprehensive agenda for the transformation of the APC” if elected. “The APC under our leadership will collaborate with the federal government to ensure continuity of the social investment programmes in the interest of all Nigerians at large,” he added. “We will also work with the national assembly to ensure necessary laws with legislative backing. “We will ensure resolution of all contending issues within the APC to ensure a united party ahead of the 2023 general election, so we can go into the contest as a united front.”