The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) says seven states are yet to implement the N30,000 national minimum wage. Ayuba Wabba, NLC president, in his new year message over the weekend, asked workers in the affected states to embark on strike. In April 2019, President Muhammadu Buhari signed the national minimum wage bill into law. The president’s decision came after the national assembly passed the bill approving N30,000 as the new national minimum wage. Wabba, who listed the affected states as Zamfara, Taraba, Benue, Kogi, Cross River, Abia and Imo, described the situation as “disappointing”. “Nigerians would recall that the national minimum wage was signed into law by President Muhammadu Buhari in April 2019,” the statement reads. “Since then, the implementation of the national minimum wage has been a tale of mixed fortunes across the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory. “While some states are in compliance, others are not. While most of the states in the north-west geopolitical zone have started implementing the new national minimum wage, there is an exception in the case of Zamfara State which has refused to pay the national minimum wage and consequential salary adjustment to workers in the state. “In the north-east, the exception is Taraba State which is yet to fully implement the new national minimum wage. “In the north-central, there are still challenges of full implementation in Benue and Kogi states. “In the south-west, most of the states are already in compliance. “In the south-south, the weak link is Cross River State which has spurned all negotiation agreements and entreaties to pay workers in the state the new national minimum wage and consequential salary adjustment.” According to Wabba, it is “disheartening” that amid the current economic situation affecting workers, some states “still need persuasion” to pay workers the national minimum wage. He, however, noted that in line with the directive of the national executive council of the NLC, workers in the affected states will embark on strike to demand the implementation of the national minimum wage.