Dachung Bagos, a member of the house of representatives, says Nigerians deserve an apology for the errors in the electoral bill. Bagos, a lawmaker from Plateau state and member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), said this on Sunday at a town hall meeting on the electoral bill organised by Yiaga Africa. Eight civil society organisations (CSOs) had highlighted errors and contradictions in the electoral act amendment bill, which President Muhammadu Buhari had declined assent to over the direct primary recommendation. The CSOs — Yiaga Africa, International Press Centre (IPC), Centre for Citizens with Disability (CCD), The Albino Foundation, CLEEN Foundation, Institute for Media and Society (IMS), Nigerian Women Trust Fund (NWTF) and Premium Times Centre for Investigative Journalism (PTCIJ) — asked the national assembly to correct the mistakes before resubmitting to Buhari. Speaking at the meeting, the lawmaker said most of the things that are being done in the national assembly involves consultants, especially at the committee level. “As members, we usually have a session on the floor — consideration of bills. And during consideration of bills, we look at most of these areas critically,” he said. “After looking at those areas critically, it’s now being sent to the consultants to do the final drafting. After the final drafting, it does not come back to the floor. We expect that most of the things we have corrected have been taken out. “I can pinpoint one of the cross reference that was corrected on the floor, but what was submitted was the same thing that was corrected. I believe such issues will be brought for discussion when we come back.” When asked if he thinks Nigerians deserve an apology for the errors, he said “absolutely!” “Nigerians deserve an apology because we are being taken there for a thorough job. Each and every one of us has five aides. And most of our aides, in terms of legislative aides, senior legislative aides, are lawyers. In as much as this came from us, we will take responsibility. Nobody will say it’s because of the consultants. We will surely take responsibility,” he added. Speaking further, the lawmaker said the opposition would not sit for plenary on Tuesday if the electoral bill is not on the agenda. “From the opposition members of the house, on Tuesday, if the electoral bill is not discussed on the floor of the house, we’ll not sit on the floor,” he said.