Soji Adejumo, professor of animal physiology and politician, has spoken on some of the political developments during the administration of Rashidi Ladoja in Oyo state. In January 2006, Ladoja was impeached and replaced by the late Adebayo Alao-Akala, the then deputy-governor. In December 2006, Ladoja’s impeachment was overturned by the supreme court which upheld an earlier judgment of the appeal court invalidating the impeachment. The supreme court verdict brought to an end Alao-Akala’s 11-month rule as governor. However, in 2007, Alao-Akala won the gubernatorial election on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and became governor till 2011. Adejumo in an interview on ‘Parrot Xtra/Ayekooto’, a programme on Splash 105.5FM, said the former governor could have been removed alongside Ladoja if the constitution permitted it. He said Akala was not part of the process that led to Ladoja’s impeachment. The professor said political stakeholders did not like the way Ladoja managed his administration, adding that the former governor was impeached owing to his attitude towards governance. “I was pained and devastated by the sudden announcement of his (referring to Alao-Akala) death. I actually planned to see him before his death but he left unannounced,” he said. “I am sure he was looking forward to his 80th birthday celebration because during his lifetime, he was a lively person. It took so much effort for me to visit Ogbomoso. “And he later got to become the governor. This political journey of late Otunba Akala is still being discussed…Yes. I can say here categorically that Otunba Alao Akala was not part of the process that led to the impeachment of the then governor of the state, Senator Rasheed Ladoja. “I was part of those that impeached him, I have no regret participating in it, and I have even spoken to Ladoja my brother recently about it. “During that period, we were not happy with the way he was running the government of the state and his attitude towards governance made him to be impeached. “Furthermore, if the constitution had permitted it, his deputy, Akala would also have been impeached with him. “I make bold to say essentially here that Akala was not part of any meeting that led to Senator Ladoja’s impeachment and when I heard that Ladoja spoke that his former deputy was not part of those that impeached him, I gave kudos to him for saying the truth. “When Akala became the governor by chance, we spoke with him and stated our demands to him. He made governance very easy for the people and the party stakeholders, and he was very approachable while in office.”