Gunshots were fired on Thursday when rival groups of hoodlums clashed on Lagos Island. The incident reportedly disrupted activities in the Idumota area of Lagos Island. It isn’t yet clear what started the fight. There were reports of shooting in the area, while the hoodlums were said to have fought with broken bottles which made people within the vicinity scamper to safety while sellers deserted their goods. The clash reportedly started on Thursday and continued into the early hours of Friday. A viral video seen by TheCable showed deserted streets with closed shops. However, giving an update on the security situation as of Friday afternoon, a statement by the rapid response squad unit of the Lagos police command noted that calm had returned to the area. “Idunmota, Tom Jones, Martins, Oluwole and other parts of Lagos Island are calm and peaceful,” the statement reads. “Commuters, traders and transporters are moving on with their normal businesses. “Policemen from various units and divisions are on ground to prevent breakdown of law and order.” Giving a situation report earlier via Twitter, Jubril Gawat, a senior special assistant to the state governor on new media, had said the police and the state task force are at the scene to ensure law and order. “SITUATION REPORT for Idumota Lagos Island: The @rrslagos767, @Taskforce112 and Area A Police Command are fully on ground to ensure peace in the area; Idumota, Tom Jones, Martins, Oluwole and others are calm this morning, everyone is going about their lawful duties,” Gawat tweeted. “Not all shops are fully opened but security agencies on ground have assured market men and women to open their shops, they have also mounted specific positions to forestall any form of violence or hoodlums taking advantage of the situation.” SITUATION REPORT for Idumota Lagos Island: The @rrslagos767, @Taskforce112 and Area A Police Command are fully on ground to ensure peace in the area; Idumota, Tom Jones, Martins, Oluwole and others are calm this morning, everyone is going about their lawful duties. @Gidi_Traffic pic.twitter.com/4qqtG7iZeT — Jubril A. Gawat (@Mr_JAGs) January 21, 2022  Not all shops are fully opened but security agencies on ground have assured market men and women to open their shops, they have also mounted specific positions to forestall any form of violence or hoodlums taking advantage of the situation. #SecureLagos@jidesanwoolu pic.twitter.com/xC2uZq3yrr — Jubril A. Gawat (@Mr_JAGs) January 21, 2022 