The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) has disbanded the anti-vandal unit of Rivers state over allegations of officers aiding illegal oil bunkering. Nyesom Wike, governor of Rivers, had accused an officer in the unit of aiding vandals to carry out their activities and asked that the said officer be transferred. In a statement on Saturday, Olusola Odumosu, NSCDC spokesman, said Ahmed Audi, the NSCDC commandant-general, had received the report of the allegations with “shock and dismay”. Odumosu said Audi had, therefore, ordered the suspension of the the anti-vandal team head and the disbandment of the unit with immediate effect, pending the outcome of an independent enquiry set up to look into the allegations. “He further directed the Acting DCG in charge of investigation and intelligence to summon all the personnel involved to the National Headquarters, Abuja, for further investigation to determine the level of involvement and or culpability with a view to dispensing justice appropriately,” the statement reads. “He decried the allegations as not being in tandem with his vision for the Corps, stressing that he will not condone any criminal act or act of compromise by any personnel. “He emphasised that a thorough investigation would be conducted to ascertain the veracity of the allegation and roles played by the individuals involved and whoever is found guilty would face necessary disciplinary actions and punishment. “He assured the Governor of Rivers state of getting to the root of the matter without delay, promising more synergy with the state government towards discharging more effective service delivery to the good people of Rivers state.” According to the statement, Audi said the swift action taken is to close any identified gaps in the NSCDC’s operations, adding that those involved will be dealt with decisively if found guilty. “Our moral principles are not negotiable; we are going to rejig the unit and fish out those spoiling the name of the Corps, my fight against vandals, illegal oil bunkerers and those stealing our collective wealth and sabotaging our economy is unflinching and we will redouble our efforts to whittle down this act of sabotage and bring to justice anyone not in tune with our vision and mission for the service,” he was quoted as saying.