Nigeria on Friday recorded 236 cases of COVID-19. Here are five updates about the pandemic this Saturday. AFRICA CDC CALLS FOR COVID-19 VACCINES WITH LONGER SHELF LIFE The Africa Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC) has requested that COVID-19 vaccines donated to the continent come with a shelf life of three to six months. John Nkengasong, director of Africa CDC, said 2.8 million doses of vaccines had expired on the continent, accounting for around 0.5 percent of the 572 million doses distributed to date. Nkenasong said just 10.4 percent of Africans are fully vaccinated. “In terms of the 0.5 percent, let me be very clear, any dose of vaccine that expired pains me because that is a life that can be potentially saved,” Nkengasong said. EU ASKED TO PREPARE FOR 4TH DOSE OF COVID-19 VACCINES Stella Kyriakides, the European Union health commissioner, has asked health ministers in the continent to prepare to deploy a fourth dose of COVID-19 vaccines as soon as data indicates that it is required. Kyriakides spoke in a video conference with EU health ministers on Friday. “If we see data which is conclusive on whether a fourth dose is needed, we need to be ready to act,” she said. The European Medicines Agency (EMA) said earlier this week that giving a fourth dose to those with weakened immune systems would be reasonable, but more data is needed. NIGERIA RECORDS 236 INFECTIONS Nigeria has recorded 236 new COVID-19 infections across the country. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) says the fresh cases were recorded in 10 states and the federal capital territory (FCT). A breakdown of the infections is shown below: Lagos -90 Gombe-66 FCT-29 Delta-12 Kaduna-11 Osun-10 Kano-8 Rivers-7 Ekiti-1 Nasarawa-1 Oyo-1 The agency said 451 persons recovered from the infection, while one person was said to have died from COVID complications. According to the NCDC, the 90 cases in Lagos were reported on January 20 and 21, with 46 and 44 instances, respectively. The agency also said the 29 infections in the FCT were logged on January 20 (15) and 2 (14). Nigeria has now confirmed a total of 251,930 infections and 225,906 recoveries with 3,124 deaths. IRELAND TO LIFT COVID-19 RESTRICTION Micheál Martin, premier of Ireland, says most COVID-19 restrictions will be lifted from 6 am on Saturday. Face masks, self-isolation after testing positive for the virus, and international travel with COVID passes will be the only requirements that will be in force. “We have weathered the Omicron storm,” Martin said. “You did what you (citizens) were asked to do. Your collective efforts have saved thousands of lives.” JAPAN APPROVES PFIZER’S COVID VACCINE FOR CHILDREN Japan has approved the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine for children between 5 and 11. Officials say vaccination will begin as early as March when technicalities, including protocols, are ironed out. “We’d like to carefully explain the safety (of the vaccine) and start inoculation as soon as possible to those who wish to receive it,” Noriko Horiuchi, minister in charge of promoting vaccine rollouts, said. “It is a big thing to have an inoculation option when some children are infected with the Omicron strain.”