Senate President Ahmad Lawan says revenue generating agencies of the federal government are capable of generating N3 trillion annually. Lawan said this on Monday in Abuja at an interactive session on the need to improve internally generated revenue (IGR) of government, as contained in the 2022 appropriation act. The meeting was between the senate leadership, members of the senate committee on finance and revenue-generating agencies of government. He assured that the senate would provide the needed support through legislation to ensure that revenue agencies meet and surpass their targets. “In 2022, the national assembly assumed and rightly so, that our government-owned enterprises can generate up to N3 trillion if we are of the mindset that we can achieve that and, of course, ensure that we oversight to stall any possibility of unwarranted expenditures by agencies of government,” Lawan said. “But that does not mean in any way that it is going to be some kind of investigation on what you do, but an encouragement of what you need to do. “In this meeting and subsequent ones, there should be no holds barred on discussions. “Where an agency feels it is encumbered in any way from achieving its target, it should say so, so that we are able to prescribe the right solutions for it to perform. “As a national assembly, let me say that the senate particularly will be strict on generating more and more revenue. “We will be rigid, we will continue to insist because we believe that this is one sure and guaranteed way of reducing our deficit and borrowing.” He said the senate would ensure that more revenue is remitted to the government’s coffers to enhance the economy and facilitate infrastructure development. “This committee is modified because the leaders of the senate believe that we can do far better and we have seen signs when last year some of the agencies performed beyond expectation,” he said. “So, it is an opportunity for us to save and enhance our economy and, of course, make Nigeria achieve more infrastructural development, which is the goal of this administration and every Nigerian. “We believe that when you (revenue-generating agencies) generate the money, we (national assembly) appropriate it. “Prudence is of the essence here, when we spend our money. And when we borrow, as the national assembly has always tried to do, we borrow to treat specific projects and programmes of government.”