The Trade Union Congress (TUC) has directed its state chapters to commence mobilisation for industrial actions against petrol subsidy removal. The union made the resolution at its National Executive Council (NEC) meeting held on Saturday in Abuja. Reading the communiqué issued after the meeting, Quadri Olaleye, the TUC president, said the proposal by the National Economic Council on subsidy removal should consider the consequent economic impact on the masses. Last week, TUC had asked the FG to fix the country’s moribund refineries before ending the fuel subsidy. The congress urged the FG to fulfil the various conditions it had earlier presented before stopping the policy. According to him, there must be assurances that refineries would be fully overhauled and the establishment of modular refineries encouraged. “NEC-in-Session enjoined Congress members nationwide to obtain their Permanent Voter Cards and ensure active participation in the democratic process ahead of 2023 general elections,” the communiqué reads. “Members are also urged to support the Political Commission of the Congress in creating groundswell awareness for providing leadership alternatives that deliver on democratic dividends and transformative governance to the people. “NEC-in-Session insists that Federal Government must ensure that the conditions precedent put forward by the TUC on the deregulation of the downstream such as the revitalisation of existing refineries, establishment of new ones including modular refineries, effective policing of borders to stem the rate of petroleum products smuggling, etc are implemented. “Finally, NEC-in-Session has mandated the Congress led by the President to take all necessary steps to ensure that these conditions are met before subsidy is removed. “Consequently, NEC-in-Session directs state councils and affiliates to commence mobilisation of members for industrial actions against subsidy removal without government fulfilling conditions precedent. “While acknowledging the giant stride in rice production through various interventions of the Buhari’s administration, the Federal Government should ensure that price of rice in the market becomes affordable to the common man to justify the rice revolution policy of the administration.” The union advised the federal government to exhibit political will in its economic diversification programmes. “The development of the agricultural value chain can create mass employment and put the country on the path of economic recovery and prosperity,’’ it added.