Nyesom Wike, governor of Rivers, says traditional rulers who are consistently absent from state functions will be replaced. Wike said this on Saturday in a statewide broadcast to mark the new year. He said all government recognises that traditional rulers are, at all times, subject to the authority of the state government and not other allegiances or culture. “The consistent absence of some first class traditional rulers, especially the Amayanabo of Okrika, the Amayanabo of Ogu, the Amayanabo of Kalabari and the Gbenemene Nyo-Khana from participating in state functions is unacceptable and will no longer be tolerated,” he said. “Should they therefore continue to absent themselves from state functions or in the regular meetings and activities of the state traditional rulers council, we would have no option than to direct their immediate replacement.” While thanking security agencies for keeping the state safe, the governor said “crime and criminality have been at very low rates in Rivers state and citizens felt safer and more secure in 2021 than the previous years”. Wike said in order to make the state safer, the government destroyed sheds that served as hideouts for criminals. He added that cart pushers, who he described as a “menace” notorious for indiscriminate scavenging, littering and recurring stealing of manhole covers, are banned in the state. The governor, in his broadcast, also banned nightclub operations around residential areas. “Apart from the noise and traffic nuisances suffered by innocent residents, no responsible government should continue to tolerate the open display and solicitation of sexual services, drug abuse and public intoxication that take place along the streets and public areas abutting some of these nightclubs, lounges and bars by the youths, some, as young as under 14 years,” he said. “Consequently, the state government has placed an immediate ban on all nightclub activities, including night-time trading and street prostitution along Abacha road and surrounding streets to stop the harmful effect of these depraved activities on the moral development of our children and society at large.”