The World Health Organisation (WHO) says the Omicron COVID variant should not be classified as mild. Tedros Ghebreyesus, WHO director-general, said this on Thursday at a media briefing on COVID. Speaking at the briefing, Ghebreyesus cautioned that although “Omicron does appear to be less severe compared to Delta especially in those vaccinated, it does not mean it should be categorised as mild”. “Just like previous variants, Omicron is hospitalising people and it is killing people,” he said. “In fact, the tsunami of cases is so huge and quick, that it is overwhelming health systems around the world. “Hospitals are becoming overcrowded and understaffed, which further results in preventable deaths from not only COVID-19 but other diseases and injuries where patients cannot receive timely care. “First-generation vaccines may not stop all infections and transmission but they remain highly effective in reducing hospitalisation and death from this virus.” The director-general also said vaccine inequity undermines global economic recovery, adding that the Alpha, Beta, Delta, Gamma and Omicron variants reflect that because of low vaccination rates, “perfect conditions for the emergence of virus variants” have been created. “Last week, the highest number of COVID-19 cases were reported so far in the pandemic,” he said. “And we know, for certain, that this is an underestimate of cases because reported numbers do not reflect the backlog of testing around the holidays, the number of positive self-tests not registered, and burdened surveillance systems that miss cases around the word. “At the current pace of vaccine rollout, 109 countries would miss out on fully vaccinating 70% of their populations by the start of July 2022. “The essence of the disparity is that some countries are moving toward vaccinating citizens a fourth time, while others haven’t even had enough regular supply to vaccinate their health workers and those at most risk. “Booster after booster in a small number of countries will not end a pandemic while billions remain completely unprotected. But we can and must turn it around. In the short-term, we can end the acute stage of this pandemic while preparing now for future ones.”