The New Tribe (TNT), a political group, has asked Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo to contest the presidency in the 2023 general election. Although Osinbajo hasn’t expressed interest in running for the office of the president, the group, at an event organised on Saturday, said he has what it takes to lead the country. Speaking at the event in Kano, Anwar Hamza, national coordinator of the group, said Osinbajo has the best qualities to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. “Osinbajo is the most qualified for the top job. There will be no need for handover notes. He has been there; he understands the terrain more than anyone,” he said. On his part, Olusola Adeyeye, former chief whip of the senate, said Osinbajo is a good choice for Nigerians. “At this moment, choosing the president is very easy for Nigerians because we have professor Yemi Osinbajo, the man of the moment,” he said. “At this point in time, we need a man like Osinbajo who is intellectual, versatile and very suited for the throne. “He is a leader with vision and mission that transcends all tribal sentiments and considers our common humanity. “He has good character which is the best quality of leadership and displays keen intellect with noble intention, that if elected, he will inspire millions of Nigerians because he is a man of his words. “For me, it is an easy choice to make. For millions of Nigerians, given a chance, it should equally be an easy choice to make except that many are mired in pessimism that arose from wanton betrayal by governments. “For the new tribe here gathered, plus millions of our cohorts all over Nigeria, our choice is clear and simple! “The moment has chosen for us a man that providence has prepared for the task. The moment speaks to choosing a man who transcends all tribes, an embodiment of the new tribe defined not by the cacophony of dialects but the symphony of our common humanity. The moment requires a man who is able to galvanise the ideals and ideas that will unfold the beckoning glory of a new Nigeria. “My compatriots, history is encapsulated in moments. This moment of Nigerian history has itself chosen a man and that man is professor Oluyemi Oluleke Osinbajo, the vice-president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “Yemi Osinbajo is the man of the moment for Nigeria. He is well-grounded and adequately prepared — a tested and trusted hand, with the right temperament, the intellectual firepower, and governance ethos best suited for this moment. Yemi Osinbajo is the man for the moment. Not for his own sake, but for the sake of our country.”