Nigeria on Friday recorded 828 cases of COVID-19. Here are five updates about the pandemic this Saturday. UK approves Pfizer antiviral COVID-19 pill Britain has approved Paxlovid, Pfizer COVID-19 pill, for adults with mild to moderate infection and who are at high risk of their illness worsening. UK Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) said data from a clinical trial showed that Paxlovid is most effective when taken during the early stages of COVID-19. The drug regulator recommended that the pill should be used within five days of the first symptoms. “We now have a further antiviral medicine for the treatment of COVID-19 that can be taken by mouth rather than administered intravenously. This means it can be administered outside a hospital setting,” June Raine, MHRA chief, said in a statement. Hong Kong says Omicron spread locally despite strict COVID rules Hong Kong says the Omicron variant of COVID-19 has spread within communities despite strict containment measures. Sophia Chan, health secretary, one of four aircrew members who tested positive after their return to Hong Kong, breached home quarantine rules by visiting a restaurant where he spread the virus to others. “Omicron is raging around the world … and it has now found its way into the community,” Chan lamented. Nigeria records 828 COVID cases COVID-19 infection spread across 15 states and the federal capital territory (FCT) on Friday as the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) logged 828 new cases. The agency said 293 people were discharged after they recovered from the infection on Friday, while one person died of COVID complications. 828 new cases of #COVID19Nigeria;
Lagos-550
Oyo-87
FCT-69
Kwara-31
Akwa Ibom-22
Bauchi-19
Ekiti-16
Delta-11
Kaduna-10
Ogun-3
Anambra-3
Plateau-2
Bayelsa-2
Nasarawa-1
Katsina-1
Jigawa-1 The NCDC said 11 cases reported for Delta are for 30th (5), and 31st (6) of December 2021. So far, 242,341 confirmed cases, 214,296 recoveries and 3,031 fatalities have been recorded in the country. Uganda to reopen schools, bars in January since March 2020 Uganda President Yoweri Museveni says this month the country will lift COVID-19 containment measures put in place since March 2020, including reopening of schools, bars and nightclubs. Uganda had imposed one of Africa’s strictest COVID restrictions to tackle the pandemic. In September 2021, some of the measures were eased, universities and other post-secondary institutions were allowed to reopen. Speaking on Friday, Museveni said pre-primary, primary and secondary schools will be reopened on January 10, while bars and nightclubs will be reopened. He added that nighttime curfew will also be lifted and movie theatres and sporting events would also be allowed to reopen. Israel to extend second COVID booster shot to elderly in care facilities Nitzan Horowitz, Israel health minister, said the country will extend its offer of a second COVID-19 booster shot to elderly people in care facilities. Israel had approved the fourth dose of the COVID vaccine for people with weakened immune systems on Thursday, while health workers commenced administering the shots on Friday.