Babajide Sanwo-Olu, governor of Lagos, has promised to work towards peaceful resolution of the legal tussle over land ownership in Magodo estate phase two. There had been an earlier threat of demolition of houses in the estate, with police and bulldozers moved to the area on December 21. Residents of the area had protested the move, and the police had withdrawn from the estate after the state intervened. According to the Lagos government, the case dates back to the demolition of properties at Shangisha village between 1984 and 1985, after which a supreme court verdict ordered the state to give the Shangisha landlords 549 plots of land as a “matter of first priority”. The state, however, said the verdict of the supreme court only relates to “allocation” and not “possession” of any land, and as such the Shangisha landlords have no claim to land in Magodo. On Tuesday, residents had converged in front of the estate, demanding the intervention of the state government amid the threat of demolition and “police invasion”. Speaking to the residents, Sanwo-Olu said the parties involved will meet at the state house on Wednesday to sort out the issues amicably. “I had talked extensively with the inspector-general of police, the attorney-general and we have resolved all of the issues. What we will see is that there is going to be a total standown and tomorrow, we will be inviting the representatives of the judgement creditors,” he said. “We have actually started a committee meeting but I want to invite them again to my office tomorrow by 11 in the morning to come over with two to three of their representatives. The state government will be there; the residents’ association will be there; the police also will be there. “We will go through every line of it and come to an amicable resolution. I beg everyone to ensure peace is restored into the estate. All of our citizens should go about their lawful business, knowing that nobody will be harassed and properties trampled upon until all of these are brought to a final closure.” Also present with the governor at Magodo was Moyosore Onigbanjo, attorney-general of the state.