Rabiu Kwankwaso, former governor, says Abdullahi Ganduje, governor of Kano, lost his reelection bid in 2019 but powerful forces imposed him on the state. In an interview with The PUNCH, Kwankwaso described the alleged imposition on Kano residents as the “worst crime in a democracy”. The former governor said many have realised their mistake and are ready for real change in the state in 2023. “This country is fully aware that Ganduje lost the election in 2019 in Kano, but the powers that be ensured that they imposed him on the majority,” he said. “They imposed the will of the minority on the majority which is the worst crime in a democracy. I think everybody is paying the price now. I think some of them are trying to correct their mistakes now after the maximum damage made to the state. It is very unfortunate that many people could not see what the masses were seeing. “There were reasons he would not have been allowed to contest in 2019, but the powers that be at the time insisted that he should continue. The masses decided to do what the leaders couldn’t do. They still came out to use power at that time and those of us who believe in peace didn’t want to start a crisis in Kano.” The former minister said there are many young people joining the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) ahead of the 2023 polls. “Instead of us being weak, they are the ones getting weaker. Every day, we have people, the masses crossing to our side. Many of them who were below 18 years of age during the last elections, but are now of age, are coming to register with us,” he said. Kwankwaso said direct primary mode is more democratic but governors do not want it because their power will be curtailed. “After practising the indirect primary, I can easily compare and say the direct one is more democratic and better than the indirect,” he said. “One thing that I believe is that the governors and other powerful people will never want to approve a direct primary because the power will get out of the government houses and land in the hands of the voters and members of the party. “So, they will never want it.”