The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) says it will no longer register alcoholic drinks produced in sachet and PET bottles. This was disclosed in a statement issued by the agency on Monday. According to NAFDAC, the ban on new registration for alcoholic drinks produced in sachet and small bottles with more than 30 percent alcohol by volume (ABV) comes after the recommendation by the committee of the federal ministry of health, NAFDAC and Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC) in December 2018. “In a decisive move to reduce availability and curb abuse of alcohol in the country, the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) has stopped the registration of alcohol in Sachet and Small volume PET and Glass bottles below 200ml amidst other stringent regulatory measures,” the statement reads. “Director-General of NAFDAC, Prof. Mojisola Christianah Adeyeye, who dropped the hint in Abuja, said registration of new alcoholic drinks in Sachet and Small volume PET and Glass bottles above 30% ABV (alcohol by volume) has been banned by NAFDAC. “The Agency will ensure that validity of renewal of already registered alcoholic products in the affected category will not exceed year 2024. “The Distillers and Blenders Association of Nigeria was also given a marching order to embark on intensive nationwide sensitisation campaigns against underage consumption of alcohol by adolescents below the age of 18 years in the bid to stem the tide of alcohol abuse in the country. “Producers of Alcohol in Sachets and Small volume agreed to reduce production by 50% with effect from January 31st 2020 while ensuring the products are completely phased out in the country by 31st January, 2024. “Even as we grapple with the containment of COVID-19 pandemic, NAFDAC is resolutely committed to the strict implementation of the regulations and regulatory measures towards safeguarding the Health of Nigerians, particularly the vulnerable youths against the dangers of reckless consumption of alcohol.”