Rochas Okorocha, senator representing Imo west, has formally declared his interest to run for office of the president. Addressing a press conference in Abuja on Monday, Okorocha said the country is facing a number of challenges that need to be addressed. The former Imo governor said he is seeking to establish a “new Nigeria” where issues of poverty and security will be addressed. “I have no other country that I can call my country apart from Nigeria. I speak to you today, my Bible tells me that out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh. Permit not to use a prepared speech because I want to pour my heart. I speak with you with a high spirit, because it despises little things that do not help mankind, it is called a noble spirit,” the senator said. “My heart is filled with mixed feelings, one side is joyous and the other side bleeds. I ran from the presidency 20 years ago, I did not succeed. Six years later I tried and came second after Umaru Yar’Adua and in 2015 I ran and our dear president, Muhammadu Buhari, emerged. “I am not in politics for what I can get, I am in politics for what I can give. I price honour more than life and glory more than wealth. “My heart bleeds because of that boy in Maiduguri or Katsina that cannot go to school. I’m not satisfied when poverty becomes the order of the day. Many countries have tagged us as the poverty capital of the world, I don’t not agree. “The truth is that we are a great nation and time will come when it will be made manifest. To the youths, If I become your president, I will handover to the next generation. I’m not not-too-young-to-run and not too old to run, I’m only 57. “We have 14 million out-of-school children. I will declare free education, it is something I have done.” Okorocha said the country needs a president who can create wealth. “This nation is in dire need of someone that can create wealth, someone who can make money for this country. I will create wealth, I sold oranges – my wealth is clean, go and check my CCB [forms],” he said. “Our biggest problem is hunger, I will address that in the new Nigeria. “Please permit to be your pilot for a new Nigeria, as your pilot there might be small turbulence, no problem, Captain Rochas is in command.”