A group known as the Coalition of Arewa Civil Society Organisations has asked Usman Alkali, inspector-general of police (IGP), to identify those who killed Ahmed Gulak, chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC). In May, the former aide of ex-President Goodluck Jonathan was shot dead by gunmen while returning to Abuja from Owerri, Imo state capital. The police in Imo blamed Gulak for his death, saying he did not tell them about his movements. In a statement on Sunday, Haruna Jagindi and Danjuma Shettima, convener and general secretary of the coalition, said Nigerians are still reeling from the pain of “losing such an illustrious son”. “Nigerians, especially those from the northern part of the country are still reeling from the pain of losing such an illustrious son, whose participation in nation building cannot be overemphasized, especially at this critical time that Nigeria needs all the uniting forces it can garner to our nation overcome it’s myriad of challenges,” they said. “The situation in Imo State was further compounded by the Gestapo style of some police officers that invaded an Anglican Church during a service in an acclaimed bid to arrest Chief Uche Nwosu, former governorship aspirant in the state. “These elements did not just invade the Church, but they did while fully masked up just like the popular unknown gunmen that we have in the state. “We are calling on the inspector-general of police to look into the two devastating scenarios that happened in Imo State as we have mentioned. “Our prayers, that the true identity of those that assassinated Honourable Ahmed Gulak should be revealed including their sponsors and their motives, because the report confirms that Gulak was not the only occupant of the vehicle when he was assassinated. “That the identity of those behind unknown gunmen should be revealed to Nigerians to help take precautions.” They also asked the IGP to disclose why Nwosu, son-in-law to Rochas Okorocha, former Imo governor, was “abducted” in a church.