Abok Nuhu Ayuba, factional speaker of Plateau house of assembly, has asked the national caretaker committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to cancel the congresses conducted by the party in the state. The call comes a few days after some members of the APC in Jigawa asked the Buni-led panel to cancel the state congress. In October 2021, two congresses were held in Plateau, with two factions laying claim to the leadership of the party in the state. In a letter dated October 21, 2021, but made available to journalists on Thursday, Ayuba said Simon Lalong, Plateau governor, did not carry party members along in the process. “The governor of Plateau state has, among other things, been very undemocratic with the way party issues are handled,” the letter reads. “From the way he chose to oust the former chairman, Mr. Letep Dabang left office because Letep Dabang always treaded with caution and advised against using unconfirmed reports from praise singers to make informed decisions and this didn‘t go well with the governor. “The appointment of excos across all levels (ward, LGA and state), this is what played out in Plateau state. The governor and his supporters didn’t carry members of the house of assembly, critical stakeholders and party faithful, along. “This move is currently generating tension among party faithful as they seem not to agree with this undemocratic measure. Some are even threatening legal action. “As the leader of the party in the house of assembly, I made several efforts to discuss these challenges with the governor of Plateau state, Rt. Hon Simon Lalong, with intentions of proffering political solutions but all these fell on deaf ears. He has continuously threatened and claimed that I am not loyal to him. “As a party faithful and a legislator, I chose to write today for the sole reason of posterity and my love for our great party, that if nothing is done we (APC) will experience a repeat of Zamfara in Plateau state. “This great party allowed me to use its platform to showcase my political intentions and aspirations as well. I will be sad if our party doesn’t get things right, especially with the congresses held recently.”