Nigeria on Wednesday recorded 230 COVID-19 infections. Here are five updates about the pandemic this Thursday. Pfizer CEO awarded $1m Genesis Prize for COVID vaccine development Albert Bourla, CEO of Pfizer, has been awarded the 2022 Genesis Prize for his contribution to developing a COVID-19 vaccine in record time. Bourla was awarded the prize for his “leadership, determination and especially for his willingness to assume great risks”. The award which comes with a $1m prize, is Genesis Foundation’s recognition for individuals for their contribution to humanity and commitment to Jewish values. “Dr. Bourla personifies two of the most fundamental Jewish values: the commitment to the sanctity of life and to repairing the world.  And while the pandemic is far from over, millions of people are alive and healthy because of what Dr. Bourla and his team at Pfizer have accomplished,” Stan Polovets, chairman of Genesis Prize Foundation, said in a statement. Florida suspends health official who advised staff to get vaccinated against COVID Raul Pino, director of the Florida department of health in Orlando, has been suspended. Pino is being investigated whether he violated a state ban by contacting employees about their low vaccination rate against COVID-19 and asking them to get shots. Ron DeSantis, Florida Republican governor, had signed a law prohibiting schools, businesses and government institutions from enforcing COVID-19 vaccination. The Florida department of health has launched an investigation to see if any laws were broken. “As the decision to get vaccinated is a personal medical choice that should be made free from coercion and mandates from employers, the employee in question has been placed on administrative leave,” the department said in a statement. Nigeria records 230 infections The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has recorded 230 COVID-19 infections across the country. The agency in its update for January 19, said the infections were recorded in 13 states and the federal capital territory (FCT). The following is a list of the new cases: Lagos-115
Gombe -29
FCT -24
Imo -20
Rivers -10
Ondo-9
Kano-5
Abia-4
Kaduna-4
Oyo-4
Kebbi-2
Ogun-2
Borno-1
Jigawa-1 According to the NCDC data, 341 persons were discharged, while one death was recorded. The agency said Wednesday’s report include four, two and one cases respectively recorded in Abia, Kebbi and Borno on January 18. It also includes 203 community discharges in the FCT on January 19 and 13 recoveries in Abia on January 18. Nigeria now has a total of 251,571 confirmed cases, 225,280 recoveries and 3,117 deaths. Czech Republic scraps mandatory COVID vaccination The Czech Republic has abolished a law making COVID-19 vaccinations mandatory for important professionals and people over the age of 60. Prime Minister Petr Fiala says his government does not see the need for mandatory vaccination as the previous administration had intended. The previous government in December ordered compulsory COVID-19 vaccinations for hospital and nursing home staff, police, soldiers and some other professions, including those over the age of 60. The law was to take effect from March 2022. COVID spreading actively in the Americas, says PAHO The Pan American Health Organisation (PAHO) says COVID-19 infections are hitting new highs with 7.2 million new cases and more than 15,000 COVID-related deaths recorded last week. “The virus is spreading more actively than ever before,” Carissa Etienne, director of PAHO, said. Owing to insufficient testing, PAHO suggested that countries in the region prioritise rapid antigen tests for people with COVID-19 symptoms and who are at risk of spreading the virus. 