Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo says Nigeria needs citizens who see the nation’s ethnic diversity as a tool for sustainable development. According to a statement by Laolu Akande, his spokesperson, Osinbajo spoke on Saturday in Edo at the conferment of the customary title of ‘Oduma of Auchi Sacred Kingdom’ on Clem Agba, minister of state for budget and planning. The vice-president also emphasised the importance of traditional institutions in building the right values in society. “Our country needs men and women who see and understand that our ethnic diversity is not a point of difference but a fountain of strength; men and women who understand that all people regardless of race and faith deserve to be treated equally, fairly and justly,” Osinbajo was quoted as saying. “This is where the significance of traditional institutions come into being because they are regarded, and rightly so, as the custodians of these values, and embody the highest and noblest ideals of our people.” Osinbajo also commended the communal bonds and peaceful co-existence of Muslims, Christians and other groups living in Auchi. “It is remarkable and worthy of praise that in the great Auchi Kingdom, adherents of both Islam and Christianity, have lived and continue to live harmoniously together for centuries, sharing a common bond as members of this community, and even of the same biological families,” he said. “Auchi is, therefore, in a real sense not just a microcosm of Nigeria, but an exemplification of our finest values of mutuality and community. “Auchi, certainly represents an enduring truth – it does not matter whether we are of different political persuasions, ethnic origins or religious allegiances; we are all connected in one way or the other. “What matters most is our common human bond, a shared brotherhood of all people.” The vice-president also said Auchi is like a second home, having undertaken his primary service there as a youth corps member over 40 years ago under the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) programme for fresh graduates.