President Muhammadu Buhari has endorsed the establishment of the Nigerian Diaspora Investment Trust Fund (NDITF). NDITF is a private sector investment window with Nigerians in the diaspora to support direct investments in the country. Buhari said this on Tuesday in Abuja at the presentation of a compendium entitled +600 Diaspora Icons @60, published by the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM). The president also pledged support for the fund. He noted the foreign exchange remittances by Nigerians in Diaspora will go a long way to help families and enhance the development index in Nigeria. Speaking about compendium, Buhari commended Nigerians who are doing well in the global community and urged Nigerians to keep celebrating their compatriots irrespective of their professions or locations. “The 327-page compendium is a historical record of the worth of our compatriots globally, the distinguished list in the publication is a reminder of what Nigerians are capable of doing to the delight of the global community,” Buhari said. ‘‘Irrespective of the few bad eggs among us, and every nation has such bad eggs, Nigeria remains a great country, populated by great people, living at home or abroad, making us proud. ‘‘No one else will do so for us. Rather, other people will tend to capitalise on the few bad eggs and characterise us in their own narratives, narratives that seek to characterise us in a bad light. We must not allow that to happen. ‘‘As we launch the compendium of excellent Nigerians today, we are also celebrating some of our best, nationally and globally. Buhari further commended the efforts of the commission for the energy and innovative steps put together to ensure better engagements with the Diaspora Community. ‘‘Rebuilding Nigeria is not the responsibility of Nigerians who live at home alone but of every Nigerian irrespective of the place of domicile,’’ he added. Abike Dabiri-Erewa, chairman and chief executive officer, NiDCOM, while giving her remarks, said the idea of the compendium was inspired by the regular diaspora Presidential Town Hall meetings. ‘‘The compendium is birthed out of the necessity to recognise, celebrate and showcase Nigerians in the Diaspora who are doing great things in their host countries and also contributing to the socio-economic development of Nigeria,’’ Dabiri-Erewa said. “The Commission plans to publish the compendium at regular intervals, towards changing the negative stereotypes typified by the activities of a few Nigerians who do not represent the country well.”