Nigeria on Wednesday recorded 432 COVID infections. Here are five updates about the pandemic this Thursday. WHO: Over 85 percent of African population yet to receive single shot of COVID vaccine The World Health Organisation (WHO) says more than 85 percent of the people in Africa are yet to receive a single dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. Speaking at a press conference, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, WHO director-general, said over 90 countries have not reached the aim of vaccinating 40 percent of their people. “We mustn’t allow this virus a free ride or wave the white flag, especially when so many people around the globe remain unvaccinated,” he said. Tedros said though the Omicron variant causes less severe disease than the Delta strain, it remains dangerous especially for the unvaccinated. “This huge spike in infections is being driven by the Omicron variant, which is rapidly replacing Delta in almost all countries,” Tedros said. Denmark to offer fourth COVID shot to citizens Denmark says it will offer a fourth dose of the COVID-19 vaccine to the most vulnerable citizens. The health ministry disclosed this on Wednesday and said the move will combat the Omicron variant. “The more widespread the infection is in society, the greater the risk that the infection will reach our most vulnerable,” Magnus Heunicke, health minister, said. “We are now embarking on a new chapter, namely a decision to offer the fourth jab to the most vulnerable citizens.” Nigeria reports 432 cases In Nigeria, the number of COVID cases has fallen in the last four days. Within the past four days, the daily infection figure reported by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) stood below 600 compared to over 700 cases logged days earlier. On Wednesday, the agency recorded new 432 cases in 14 states and the federal capital territory (FCT). The breakdown of the fresh infections is shown below; Lagos-163
Rivers-109
Imo-27
Edo-16
Kaduna-15
Kwara-14
FCT-13
Oyo-13
Kano-12
Akwa Ibom-10
Delta-10
Bauchi-9
Jigawa-9
Ekiti-8
Borno-4 The data showed that 644 recoveries were logged by the NCDC on Wednesday raising the country’s total discharges to 220,839. However, six persons were said to have died as a result of COVID complications. The agency said Wednesday’s report include 163 cases recorded in Lagos for January 11 (10) and 12 (153). It also said the report include 10 cases logged in Akwa Ibom on January 10 (7) and 11 (3). Nigeria has now confirmed 249,586 infections with 3,092 deaths. Moderna: We expect COVID vaccine trial data for children aged 2-5 in March Moderna says it anticipates releasing data from its COVID vaccine trial in children between the age of two and five years in March. “If the data is supportive and subject to regulatory consultation, Moderna may proceed with regulatory filings for children 2-5 years of age thereafter,” the company said. Omicron accelerating in Americas, says PAHO The Pan American Health Organisation has warned that COVID infections are accelerating in the region. Carissa Etienne, PAN director, said cases in the Americas increased to 6.1 million on January 8 from 3.4 million recorded on January 1. “Infections are accelerating across every corner of the region of the Americas, and once again, our health systems are being challenged as emergency room visits and hospitalisations are rising,” Etienne said. 