Rashidi Ladoja, the Osi Olubadan of Ibadanland and former governor of Oyo, says all issues over the successor to the throne of the Olubadan have been resolved. The royal stool became vacant following the death of Saliu Adetunji on January 2. The monarch, who died at the University College Hospital, was the 41st king of the ancient city, and he succeeded Samuel Odulana who died in 2016. Though the royal succession system recognises Lekan Balogun, a former senator and the Otun Olubadan as next in line, Michael Lana, a former attorney-general of the state, had said Balogun was not qualified to take the position. The former AG had claimed that Balogun and other high chiefs that were crowned in 2017 by the late Abiola Ajimobi, immediate past governor of the state, have no claim to the throne of the Olubadan. But speaking on Saturday after a meeting with Seyi Makinde, governor of Oyo, Ladoja said all matters causing controversy over the throne have been put to rest. “The governor has been magnanimous to have called this meeting because those of us that said we were not going to meet at all finally met and we have resolved all the matters,” he said. “I can tell you that by next week, there wouldn’t be any tension in Ibadan again.” Concerning the matters in court over the crowning of chiefs, Ladoja said all parties involved have resolved on how to settle the pending cases. Ladoja added that none of the council members is opposed to Lekan Balogun ascending the throne since he is next in line according to custom. “I can tell you that the Olubadan-in-Council is one and all is well. We are happy that the matter has been resolved and we are grateful to governor Seyi Makinde,” Ladoja said. “We have our procedure. Now that everything has been resolved, the council will meet and present the candidate to the governor for assent. “We thank all Ibadan indigenes and lovers of Ibadan for their concern.” Other chiefs that attended the meeting are Tajudeen Ajibola (Osi Balogun); Olufemi Olaifa (Otun Balogun); Amidu Ajibade (Ekaarun Olubadan), and Lateef Gbadamosi, the Ashipa Balogun Olubadan.