Nigeria recorded 352 cases of COVID-19 on Friday. Here are five updates about the pandemic this Saturday. Use ‘most protective mask you can’ — US CDC advises Americans The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has asked Americans to wear the most protective masks to prevent contracting the COVID-19. In its revised guidance on Friday, the CDC said “to protect yourself and others from COVID-19, CDC continues to recommend that you wear the most protective mask you can that fits well and that you will wear consistently”. “Some masks and respirators offer higher levels of protection than others, and some may be harder to tolerate or wear consistently than others. It is most important to wear a well-fitted mask or respirator correctly that is comfortable for you and that provides good protection. “Well-fitting disposable surgical masks and KN95s offer even more protection, and well-fitting NIOSH-approved respirators (including N95s) offer the highest level of protection.” Mexico approves Pfizer COVID pills for emergency Mexico has authorised Paxlovid, Pfizer antiviral oral treatment against COVID-19, for emergency use. Federal Commission for Protection against Health Risks (COFEPRIS) confirmed the approval in a statement issued on Friday. Paxlovid, which combines nirmatrelvir and ritonavir in a tablet, is recommended for adults with light or moderate risk of complications. Nigeria records 352 infections Nigeria recorded a slight decrease in its daily COVID cases on Friday. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) says 352 cases were recorded in eight states and the federal capital territory (NCDC) down from 423 cases logged on Thursday. A breakdown of the new cases is shown below: Rivers-119
Lagos-106
Gombe-50
FCT-36
Delta-16
Kaduna-14
Oyo-5
Taraba-5
Kano-1 According to the agency’s records, 2,292 persons were discharged after recovering from the infection. There were no fatalities on Friday leaving the total number of deaths at 3,092. So far, 250,361 cases have been confirmed with 223,495 recoveries. EMA adds rare spinal condition as side effect of AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine A safety panel of the European Medicines Agency (EMA) has recommended adding “transverse myelitis” a rare spinal inflammation as a side effect of the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine. In recent months, the AstraZeneca vaccine has faced multiple setbacks, including regulatory inquiries into rare incidences of serious adverse effects such as blood clots and low platelet counts. Indian state says unvaccinated children won’t be allowed to enter schools Haryana, an Indian state, says children aged 15 to 18 who have not been vaccinated against COVID-19 will not be allowed to return to school when they reopen. Anil Vij, health minister, announced the decision while reviewing the COVID-19 situation in the state. The state’s schools are currently closed owing to a significant increase in COVID-19 cases during the last two weeks.