Seyi Makinde, governor of Oyo, says Nigeria needs “only the best at this time” as the country prepares for the 2023 general election. He spoke on Saturday when Bola Tinubu, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), paid a visit to Oyo over the deaths of Jimoh Oyewumi, the Soun of Ogbomoso; Saliu Adetunji, the Olubadan of Ibadanland, and Alao-Akala, former governor of Oyo. The APC chieftain, on Monday, had said he had informed President Muhammadu Buhari of his intention to contest the presidency. According to a statement by Taiwo Adisa, Makinde’s chief press secretary, the Oyo governor wished Tinubu well in his quest to become president. “I want to welcome you to Oyo state. We are really grateful for this visit. This is the year political parties will elect their candidates towards the election that is coming next year. So, what this had demonstrated to us is, you stood for politics without bitterness,” Makinde was quoted as saying. “During this political season, you may have to question yourself on why you need to come to the Government House because people might have another interpretation to it. But you sent a message across to me and I was delighted to host you in Ibadan. “We lost two traditional rulers almost in quick succession. First, it was Soun of Ogbomoso land, and we were planning for the burial when the Olubadan of Ibadanland also joined his ancestors. We were still in the middle of that when former governor Akala also died. I can see that in Oyo state, we try to take politics out of what we call ‘omoluabi’. “We may fight, struggle for political positions but we know power can only come from God and He gives it to whomever He will like to give it to at whatever time. “We really thank you for this visit and want to let you know that we have taken proper notice that you have risen above politics and all that is going around here to come and share with us at this moment that we are grieving. We say thank you. “Let me also use this opportunity to wish you well in your political quest to govern this nation. We want the best for this country and only the best is good enough at this particular time.”