The federal executive council (FEC) has approved N52.8 billion for the completion of road projects across the six geo-political zones. Garba Shehu, senior special assistant to the president on media and publicity, disclosed this on Wednesday at the statehouse in Abuja on behalf of Babatunde Fashola, minister of works. He said major roads, as well as 11 other projects, were approved across the geo-political zones, adding that Akwa Ibom, Abia, Imo, Kwara and Cross River states are major benefactors. Fashola, while speaking, said the proposal for the 15 highway projects across the federation, including roads and bridges, were all approved. “The construction of phase II of Ikot-Ekpene border, Aba to Owerri dualization road project at the cost of N40 million with a completion period of 30 months,” Fashola said. “The construction of the Offa bypass road in Offa Local Government Area of Kwara State, for N4.34 million and is due for completion in 12 months. “Also the revised estimated cost for the rehabilitation of the Alesi-Ugep road section in Cross River State. The initial cost was N11.221 billion but the cost has now gone up to N14.740 billion with an additional completion period of six months. Eleven other roads are spread across various geo-political regions of the country.” On his part, Mohammed Bello, minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), said FEC also approved N5.4 billion for the construction of a road in Mpape-Gayi-Sphere. “Today I presented one memo at the Federal Executive Council meeting in respect of the contract for the completion of the road called Mpape-Gayi-Sphere within the Federal Capital Territory, in Bwari Area Council, to be completed within 18 months,” Bello said. Bello further explained that the road had been under construction, but the contract was terminated over the non-performance of the contractor. Speaking about her ministry, Zainab Ahmed, minister of finance, budget and national planning, said a memo was presented to confirm the ratification of the customs mutual administrative assistance (CMAA) agreement between South Africa and Nigeria. “The purpose for this is for the customs law in the respective territories to be properly observed to prevent and also enhance investigation and to combat customs offences and to afford each country mutual assistance in cases concerning the delivery of documents regarding the application of customs laws in two countries,” Ahmed said. “The importance of this for us is a cooperation between Nigeria and South Africa, as it has become even more important now with the Africa Continental Free Trade Agreement. It will also help to increase trade relations between the two countries and facilitate the exchange of information as well as strengthen our binational cooperation.” Isa Pantami, minister of communications and digital economy, also received approval of two memos for the ministry, which has been pending for over six years. “We have notified the council on the establishment of a national council and communication of the digital economy,” Pantami said. “The second memo which was also approved was on the deployment of the Revenue Assurance Commission, which is meant to block leakages.”