Ismail Adewusi, postmaster-general and chief executive officer of the Nigerian Postal Services (NIPOST), has highlighted the scorecard of the postal agency under his stewardship in the past two years. Adewusi was appointed NIPOST CEO on December 23, 2019, by President Muhammadu Buhari. Speaking at a media briefing on Tuesday in Abuja, Adewusi said the COVID-19 pandemic, which struck a few months into his assumption of office, almost stalled his comprehensive reforms package for NIPOST. He, however, explained that the pandemic and its impacts opened a new world of possibilities for his administration. Adewusi said within the period in review, the African Development Bank (AfDB) partnered with his agency over its agricultural programme to use its facilities. Towards more efficient service delivery, the CEO said the agency has embarked on the replacement of old infrastructure with new ones. He cited the instances of new delivery trucks, refurbished postal outlets and acquisition of technology devices to enhance delivery. “The quantum leap in e-commerce necessitated drastic measures to cope with the surge in parcels/packet deliveries. NIPOST collaborated with a number of private transporters and logistics companies like Speedaf to ensure seamless deliveries,” he explained. “Recently, six (6) additional new high tonnage trucks were acquired for e-commerce and logistics. This acquisition has greatly boosted the quality of service. Just as the collaboration with Speedaf Logistics Nigeria Limited led to the acquisition of twenty-seven (27) new 10, 20, and 30 tonnage trucks into our fleet.” Adewusi said that NIPOST established its first digital centre in Enugu under his watch, lauding the approval of new courier regulatory frameworks. “I am very happy to inform you that today, we have a success story to tell, with the approval of a new courier regulation after nineteen (19) years. The last regulation was last reviewed in 2001,” he said. “The new regulation empowers NIPOST to regulate the courier and logistics industry, checkmate the activities of logistics and courier companies in the country. “The new regulations would sanitise the logistics ecosystem and put in check nefarious activities of the criminal-minded operators. “Another milestone is the passage and signing of the amended Finance Act, 2020 by President Muhammadu Buhari to give NIPOST a role in the administration of Stamp Duty in Nigeria. “It is gratifying for us to note that NIPOST (Repeal) Bill was passed by the Senate and House of the Representatives, and it is awaiting assent by the President Muhammad Buhari GCFR. I am of the great belief that the Bill, when signed, will reposition NIPOST for better service delivery.” Adewusi also listed collaborations with agencies such as the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) the National Drugs Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) as part of efforts to ensure NIPOST plays crucial roles in national development and the battle against crime and drugs abuse. 