The Nigeria Police Force (NPF) has announced the appointment of Amabua Mohammed, an assistant commissioner of police (ACP), as its adviser for the Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF) in N’Djamena, Chad. According to the NPF, Amabua is the first female police officer to hold the position. Frank Mba, force spokesperson, in a statement on Monday, said the ACP will coordinate policing activities in the fight against insurgents. “With this appointment, ACP Amabua becomes the first female Police Officer in history to hold the tasking position of coordinating policing activities, ensuring discipline and professionalism, and providing advisory on the management and improved peace-building efforts, in the fight against Boko Haram insurgency by the Multinational Joint Task Force,” the statement reads. “The Officer, who has a commendable professional record and vast experience in international peacekeeping operations, has served in several peacekeeping missions spanning through two decades. “She was a member of the Nigerian contingent to the United Nations Mission in Kosovo in the year 2000, the African-led International Support Mission to Mali in the year 2013, amongst others, where she distinguished herself severally and earned the prestigious United Nations Medal for professionalism. “ACP Amabua, legal adviser and prosecutor, is an expert peace builder and versatile community policing advocate. “She is a graduate of Law from the University of Maiduguri and Master’s degree holder in International Law and Diplomacy from the University of Lagos. “She has also attended several professional courses and trainings on Human Rights and Rule of Law advocacy and mentoring as well as mission field coordination and safety.” The MNJTF was established in 1994 to tackle trans-border security challenges. However, following an attack by insurgents on the MNJTF headquarters which was in Borno at the time, the force was reorganised in 2015 with Cameroon, Chad, Niger and Nigeria now “troops contributing countries”.