The Ebonyi government has declared Linus Okorie, a former member of the house of representatives representing Ohaozara/Onicha/Ivo constituency, wanted over allegations of publishing “inciting” messages. Uchenna Orji, Ebonyi commissioner for information, announced the development on Tuesday at a media briefing after a meeting of the state security council. According to Orji, a report presented to the security council on the recent beheading of an operative of the Ebube Agu security outfit linked the publications by the former lawmaker to the incident. “The security council considered a report presented to it by security agencies on the beheading of an Ebube Agu official in Ivo local government area,” the commissioner said. “The security council noted the revelations in that report and therefore resolved to declare wanted one honourable Linus Okorie for the publications and inciting statements, some of which were posted on Facebook, that were traced to be part of the inflammatory publications that really incited that very tension that led to the beheading of the Ebube Agu official. “The security council also noted the revelations in the report that indicated that some other people were accessories to that very gruesome murder of that young man. “The security council resolved that the security agencies be urged to intensify investigations and come to a final conclusion on all the issues with a view to bringing all perpetrators to book. “It must be noted that the Ebube Agu security outfit has been up and doing in Ebonyi state. Where they are erring, it has been noted and I want to tell the public that there will be a great change, especially in the way and manner they handle issues that come before them. “That is one of the reasons the structure was further modified, in terms of the command.” Meanwhile, the former lawmaker has kicked against the declaration by the Ebonyi government, alleging that “Umahi is simply looking for a high profile scapegoat to take away attention from the many lives being lost to Ebube Agu operatives in the state”. In a statement on Tuesday, Okorie added that he could not be declared wanted by the state since he hadn’t been invited by security agencies to answer questions on allegations of his involvement in the crime.