The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) says it recorded a decline in end-of-the-year crashes in 2021. According to a statement by Bisi Kazeem, the corps spokesman, the decline was noted during the FRSC’s just-concluded end-of-the-year special patrol, tagged ‘Operation Zero Exercise’, which lasted between December 15, 2021 and January 15, 2022. The spokesman said a total of 600 road traffic crashes (RTC) were recorded, which represented a nine percent decrease compared to 660 in the last patrol. He said 327 people were killed, which represented a 26 percent decrease compared to the last exercise, while a total of 1,916 people were rescued, representing nine percent decrease in injuries when compared to 2,099 in the last exercise. He also said that there was a recorded increase in the total number of people rescued as the corps rescued 2,406, compared to 2,273 people rescued in the previous patrol. According to the statement, operatives impounded 11,060 vehicles representing an 18 percent increase in impoundment, and apprehended 20,845 offenders as against 16,578 offenders in the previous exercise. Speaking on factors that contributed to the successes recorded within the period, Boboye Oyeyemi, the corps marshal, said the establishment of more commands, outposts, roadside clinics and zebra points contributed to the improvement. He added that the reduction in crashes during the period under consideration is an indication that the combination of aggressive enforcement and public enlightenment that has been broadened through the establishment of the National Traffic Radio 107.1 FM is yielding results and road users are complying accordingly. He said the tempo in the operational and advocacy front will be sustained to ensure continuous decrease in the number of road crashes. “The corps will keep on advancing steadily towards the realisation of its corporate mandate of creating a safer motoring environment and eradicating RTC on our roads,” he said. “This tempo will surely be sustained as all efforts have been adequately put in place to make the roads safer for all”.