The Nigerian Twitter-sphere has been abuzz with reactions from the encounter between Abimbola Oyewole, identified as a chief superintendent of police (CSP), and Babajide Sanwo-Olu, governor of Lagos, at Magodo estate. Oyewole defied the governor’s order to vacate the premises of Magodo estate over planned demolition in a now trending video. Some Nigerians on Twitter are reacting to this development. Below are some reactions from Twitter. I am so angry. A useless Police or Army officer from Abuja can move mad in a state without the Governor being able and to control them. Whatever the issue is, should the CSP not at least have obeyed the Governor? “Orders from Abuja.” This is a mess. — Dr. Dípò Awójídé (@OgbeniDipo) January 4, 2022  What happened between Gov. Sanwoolu and that CSP shouldn’t happen in any state. Beyond politics Boils down to our acceptance of lawlessness. If we want to do this Federalism, let’s do it. If we don’t want to, let’s stop pretending. How can you undermine a governor like that? — JJ. Omojuwa (@Omojuwa) January 4, 2022  — Sanwo Olu acted weak here. As he has established that the AGF and the IGP were not aware of their presence, he could have directed his DSS to arrest the police unit for impersonation until the Police comes to claim them. — State Police is very necessary. — Man of Letters. (@Letter_to_Jack) January 4, 2022  That CSP that defied Sanwo Olu will be disciplined,whether he was courageous or not is another matter entirely. — UNCLE MIKE (@michael_asah) January 4, 2022  https://twitter.com/Abbas_bnSanusi/status/1478704658394796036?t=j6msoAuDEkmuKOfS8_1w6w&s=19 What Sanwo Olu experienced today is disgrace and embarrassment. And he did not deserve it. The shame is on us as a country.How can a Governor be “chief security officer of the state” and a policeman stands before him calling his bluff in that manner. That was painful to watch. — #OurFavOnlineDoc  (@DrOlufunmilayo) January 4, 2022  Not a fan of Sanwo Olu, but can we all see the need for state policing and devolution of powers? This is also why FG do not want it. People would rather have someone in Abuja control all of us. — $AYOBAMI  (@dondekojo) January 4, 2022  Now you know Gov. Sanwo-olu  doesn't know half of what is going on in Lagos state.  How can a CSP police stand be arguing with him like that? For Godsake he his the chief security officer of the state. Gov. Sanwo olu we ask again who ordered the shooting at lekki tollgate. — Engr Cea (@bigcea202) January 5, 2022  On this Sanwo Olu’s case the CSP is 100% right. He’s acting based on instructions and he can’t stand down because Sanwo said so. Court gave order, if Sanwo feels its wrong he should appeal. The Governor cannot be above the law — Realest (@yaqss4) January 5, 2022  What if that Sanwo Olu drama with the police was staged to further prove his statement i.e. "forces beyond my control…" and disconnect him from what happened in Lekki toll gate. I'm not saying it's staged, I'm just saying what if. — I'm Dammy (@AyamDamiee) January 5, 2022  You hate Buhari and call him a dictator, you dislike Sanwo-Olu because he is a gentle man…You call him weak..But you're in love with Wike despite being a tyrant..If Wike were to be the governor of Lagos state, many of you will be in jail by now..Your properties demolished — papa wemba! (@lexyy4real) January 5, 2022  You know whats funny is how people on twitter are saying you cant try that with x Governor. You lot underestimate the might and power of the federal Govt. And its really cute. — Cinderella Man (@Osi_Suave) January 5, 2022 