The Super Eagles of Nigeria delivered a spectacular second-half performance that resulted in a 2-0 win over Guinea Bissau — despite making wholesome changes to the starting line-up. Sadiq Umar and William Troost-Ekong, the captain, got the goals that confirmed Nigeria’s 100% group stage record at the African Cup of Nation (AFCON) in Cameroon. Below is TheCable Sports’ player ratings for Super Eagles clash against Guinea Bissau. Francis Uzoho (3.5/5): Looked calm and in control more than Maduka Okoye has been in the past two AFCON matches. Saved well twice and was in tune with his defence all game. Tyronne Ebuehi (3/5): The full-back was not spectacular and could not impact the game. He was, however, effective in his defensive duties, doing enough to stop Guinea Bissau from exploiting his wing. Semi Ajayi (4/5): Although the West Bromwich Albion man missed a golden opportunity to give Nigeria an early lead, he was colossal in defence. He closed down and thwarted Guinea Bissau’s attackers, including delivering a goal-saving block that preserved Nigeria’s clean sheet. William Troost-Ekong (C) (5/5): Another commanding performance from Troost-Ekong, he carried out his duties with minimal fuss. Cleared behind Ajayi and his communication was key all night. Chipped in with a surprise goal to cap off a captain’s performance. He also led from defence to attack. Man of the match. Jamilu Collins (3.5/5): The left-back was strong in his defensive duties and offered little support to Ejuke in the attack. He was however effective in decision making and movement down the wings. Wilfred Ndidi (4/5): The quality expected of the defensive midfielder did not wane despite the opponent. He contributed to winning tackles, recovering balls, and organizing the centre of the pitch all night. Kelechi Nwakali (3.5/5): His deliveries from dead balls were excellent while his passing was crisp. He also created dangerous situations. He provided several key passes and looks like a good deputy for Aribo. Chidera Ejuke (3/5):  The man charged with producing from Moses Simon’s wing but could not do anything of note. He did prove useful in helping out defensively. Kelechi Iheanacho (3.5/5): An ever-present link for the front three and the Leicester City man’s technical ability was on display. He provided dangerous attacking moments and assisted Umar’s goal. He plays for the team and looks like the thread that sews the Super Eagles attack together. Alex Iwobi (3/5): Anonymous in the first half but he was involved in the goal. He moved back to the centre and immediately had more influence on the match. A good second-half performance. Sadiq Umar (3.5/5): The languid striker is doing too much and his decision-making was poor as he wasted several good openings. Finally scored when the ball was laid on for him by Iheanacho. Substitutes Moses Simon (4/5): Came on and was immediately influential and continued from where he left off from the previous game. The pick of this cameo performance was the Nantes man waltzing past three defenders before hitting the bar. Peter Olayinka (N/A): Came on after the damage had been done but managed to be involved in a goalscoring opportunity. Henry Onyekuru (N/A): Had a good game in his few minutes on the pitch. Frank Onyeka (N/A): A good run out for the Brentford midfielder. Olisa Ndah: A good run out for the defender.