Hope Uzodimma, governor of Imo, says Rochas Okorocha, his predecessor, wants to be in charge of the state despite leaving office. The governor spoke on Tuesday at a stakeholders’ forum in Owerri, the Imo capital. Earlier on Tuesday, Oguwike Nwachukwu, chief press secretary to Uzodimma, had said Rochas Okorocha, former governor of Imo, and Uche Nwosu, former governorship candidate of the Action Alliance (AA), were named by suspects currently in custody as sponsors of insecurity in the state. Speaking on Okorocha, he said the former governor should realise that he is no longer in office. “The difference between the former governors and Okorocha is that he is out of office but he still wants to be in office,” he said. “Okorocha is a younger brother to me; I am older than him. If not for anything, traditionally, I deserve to be respected by him. “I don’t want to join issues with him. Let him just know that he is no longer the governor and for the short period I will be here, God’s willing, he should allow me to answer the governor I am.”  Also speaking on insecurity, the governor, who had said on December 18 that he would reveal those behind the recent attacks in the state, made a U-turn and said he will instead allow security agencies to conclude their investigations and charge those sponsoring criminality to court. “You will recall that I have said that I will use the opportunity of this stakeholders’ meeting to name those behind insecurity in the state,” the governor said. “Since then, many politicians have latched on that statement to cause problems in the state. Even the media, both mainstream and social, did not help matters. “I want to crave your indulgence to let us allow the security agencies to finish their investigation, arrest those that are responsible and charge them to court. “I want to tell you that instead of naming them, I will allow security agencies who are are already investigating those identified to finish their job. Naming them would jeopardise the work of security agencies who are already doing a great job.”