Nigeria defeated Sudan 3-1 in the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) Group D match played at the Stade Omnisport Roumde Adjio in Cameroon on Saturday night. Consequently, the three-time African champions progressed to the last 16 with a game to spare. The Super Eagles dominated the game from the first whistle and it did not come as a surprise when Samuel Chukwueze broke the deadlock three minutes into the encounter. The winger sidefooted to the far corner from Moses Simon’s pass for the first goal of the game. This prompted the Sudanese to come out of their shells and try to find the leveller. During the thrilling encounter, Taiwo Awonuyi, Union Berlin forward, got on the end of a superb pass from Chukwueze before his shot was blocked by Mustafa Mohammed. The Super Eagles then resorted to short passes and patient build-up in a bid to unlock the stubborn Sudan defence. Goalkeeper Ali Abdallah was actively involved in the game as he made two great stops in quick succession –first by denying William Troost-Ekong from close range before making himself big to Awoniyi’s rebound in the 36th minute. There was another worrying moment for Sudan in the 37th minute after Joe Aribo’s low strike hit the crossbar. There was also a miss from Joe Aribo in the 41st minute. Awoniyi tried to locate the Rangers man who couldn’t wrap it beyond Abdalla. In the 45th minute, the Super Eagles doubled their lead as the hardworking Awoniyi did well with a beautiful header which goalkeeper Abdalla couldn’t handle. Nigeria continued to dominate the game in the second half with the impressive Simon poking to the net from Awoniyi’s flick. Sudan were then awarded a penalty after Ola Aina handled the ball in the box. Walieden Safour sent Maduka Okoye the wrong way in the 70th minute to make the scoreline 3-1. The shot-stopper then produced a magnificent save to deny Mohamed Hussein after the Eagles’ defence was exposed. At the end of the clash, the Super Eagles secured the three points and progressed to the knockout round. Photo credit: Pooja Media