Lai Mohammed, minister of information, says the federal executive council (FEC) has approved contract awards for flood control in the six geo-political zones. Mohammed, said this while briefing state house correspondents on the outcome of the council meeting at the presidential villa, Abuja on Wednesday. He gave a breakdown of the 14 projects approved for award under the ecological fund spanning the six geo-political zones of the country. He said two memos were presented on behalf of President Muhammadu Buhari, including one seeking approval for the award of contracts for the 2022 emergency procurement of first and second quarters accelerated soil erosion, flood and pollution control intervention projects. The 14 ecological project contracts were approved for award at the total cost of about N15.1 billion. “You note that these projects are divided across the six geopolitical zones. Two in the south-east, two in the south-west, two in the south-south; north-east has two, north-west has three, north-central and FCT has three,” he said. “What I want to add here is that most of these projects, when completed, are to be handed over to the beneficial communities. But the intervention of the ecological office is massive, huge and If we can complete  261 in six years, all that shows is that an average of about 40 or more every year. “The other memo is of equal importance, on behalf of Mr President. It is the memo seeking approval for the award of contract for the provision of various agricultural inputs and equipment for the national youth farmers scheme. “As you are aware, we have the national youth farmers scheme under the National Agricultural Land Development Authority. Here, four contracts were awarded for the total sum of N1 billion, N393 million naira with various competition periods.” The minister said the current administration has intervened in 291 projects out of which 263 have been completed and handed over to beneficiary communities and institutions while a total of 28 are at various stages of completion.