Some oil experts have applauded MohammaFmod Barkindo, current secretary-general, Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC ), for his exceptional diplomatic skills during his two-term tenure. This is coming after OPEC voted to appoint Haitham Al-Ghais, Kuwaiti oil executive, on Monday, as its new secretary-general, with effect from August 1, 2022. Barkindo’s tenure will end July 31, 2022, after serving two successive terms at OPEC. “A long-serving veteran of Nigeria’s oil industry and OPEC, Mr Barkindo has been instrumental in expanding OPEC’s historical efforts to support sustainable oil market stability through enhanced dialogue and cooperation with many energy stakeholders, including the landmark DoC since its inception in December 2016,” a statement from OPEC reads. Several top OPEC members and oil experts took to the micro-blogging platform, Twitter, to hail Mohammad Barkindo for his service at OPEC. “The huge success recorded by Barkindo should not be forgotten,” One of the users, Amenda Bakr, chief OPEC correspondent and Dubai deputy bureau chief, said. “His exceptional diplomatic skills, patience and perseverance really stand out at a time the oil industry faced unprecedented challenges,” Bakr said. “He will be missed by the entire industry.” Let’s not forget the huge success of opec’s current Secretary General Mohammed Barkindo. His exceptional diplomatic skills, patience and perseverance really stand out at time the oil industry faced unprecedented challenges. He will be missed the entire industry. #OOTT #opec — Amena Bakr (@Amena__Bakr) January 3, 2022  Bakr also quoted Abdulaziz bin Salman Al Saud, a Saudi royal and politician, as saying: “I would like to offer my cordial congratulations to HE Haitham Al-Ghais on his appointment, by acclamation, as the next secretary-general of OPEC.” Other users, quoting her tweet, also showered accolades on Barkindo. Tom Kloza, an energy analyst, said: “I will miss Barkindo’s sartorial splendour– particularly his hats”. Others described Barkindo as an absolute performer. Hoy se eligió al nuevo secretario general de la OPEP,  Mr. Haitham Al Ghais ocupará el secretariado a partir del próximo 1 de agosto. El @GobiernoMX le extiende una felicitación y deseos de éxito.Nuestro reconocimiento a Mr. Mohammed Barkindo por la excelente labor realizada.  https://t.co/bey5D14euV — Rocío Nahle (@rocionahle) January 3, 2022  Suhail Mohamed Al Mazrouei, minister of energy and infrastructure, UAE, thanked the current secretary-general of OPEC for his contribution to stabilising the global market, especially during the COVID-19 pandemic. “We also thank HE brother Mohamed Barkindo for his fruitful efforts that led the organisation to achieve success and stability in global markets during the past years, especially at the time of the global challenges to combat the pandemic,” he said.