Nigeria on Thursday recorded 123 cases of COVID-19. Here are five updates about the pandemic this Friday. NEW ZEALAND EXTENDS COVID ISOLATION TO 14 DAYS New Zealand has announced that it will be extending COVID-19 isolation requirements to 14 days in light of the spread of the Omicron variant. “To help address the increased infectiousness of Omicron, as an interim measure the isolation time for all Covid-19 cases is being extended to 14 days. It was previously ten days,” the ministry of health said in a statement. A similar change is also being applied for close contacts — where all close contacts will now isolate for 10 days – an increase from the previous seven days. “As part of the response to Omicron, at this stage our public health teams are focussed strongly on stamping out early any Omicron cases in the community,” the ministry added. The changes are to take effect from January 21. TAIWAN TO MANDATE USE OF COVID PASSES FOR ENTERTAINMENT VENUES The Taiwan government says it will mandate the use of passes that provide proof of COVID-19 vaccination for entry into entertainment venues. The Central Epidemic Command Centre said from Friday, entry into venues including bars and night clubs would require proof of full vaccination, either by showing a physical vaccine card or a new digital card. The centre said the move was needed to minimise the risk of community transmission as Taiwan deals with a small number of domestic infections of the Omicron variant. AUSTRIA ANNOUNCES NATIONAL LOTTERY TO ENCOURAGE VACCINATION Austria has announced a national lottery for those who have been vaccinated, in an attempt to improve its vaccine uptake. Austria’s government said on Thursday that it was introducing a prize draw for those who receive coronavirus vaccinations. “What is there to win in the vaccination lottery? Vouchers!” chancellor Karl Nehammer told a news conference. Members of the public, whether already vaccinated or not, would be entitled to one ticket for each shot they have had — three in total for those who have had their booster shot. Every 10th ticket would win a 500 euro (£416) gift voucher, Nehammer said, adding it would cost up to one billion euros. IRISH GOVERNMENT RECEIVES GO AHEAD TO LIFT MAJOR COVID RESTRICTIONS The Irish government has been given the green light to lift the majority of the state’s COVID-19 restrictions. The country’s National Public Health Emergency Team (Nphet) recommended restrictions around hospitality can be lifted, including the 8pm curfew. The recommendations also say live venues and sport venues can return to full capacity and that COVID-19 passes should only be required for international travel. The wearing of face masks is recommended to continue on public transport and in retail settings. Government ministers will meet on Friday to assess the advice before an announcement will be made. NIGERIA RECORDS 123 CASES The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has reported 123 new cases of COVID-19. According to the agency’s update for January 20, the new cases were recorded in 12 states. A breakdown of the cases is shown as follows: Edo-38 Osun-25 Rivers-22 Kaduna-12 Oyo-10 Kwara-6 Ogun-3 Bauchi-2 Kano-2 Borno-1 Delta-1 Ekiti-1 The agency said 175 people were discharged after they recovered from the infection. Six person died on Thursday, raising the fatality toll to 3,123. With the new confirmed cases, Nigeria has now recorded a total of 251,694 infections and 225,455 recoveries.