The Zamfara police command says 97 abducted victims found in Shinkafi and Tsafe LGAs of the state have been rescued. Speaking at a media briefing on Tuesday, Ayuba Elkanah, Zamfara commissioner of police, said 68 of the victims, including minors and pregnant women, were rescued in Shinkafi area of the state while 29 were rescued in Tsafe axis. He said the rescue operations were successful as a result of the collaboration between the police, repentant bandits, and vigilantes. “Following an extensive pressure mounted as a result of the ongoing military operation around the camp of a notorious bandit’s kingpin known as Bello Turji that covers Shinkafi, Zurmi and Birnin Magaji local government areas, on 3rd January, 2022, police tactical operatives deployed at Shinkafi axis received an intelligence report that some kidnapped victims were seen stranded in the bush,” Elkanah said. “The police operatives in collaboration with genuine repentant bandits and vigilantes swung into action and rescued 68 victims from the forest. The victims were in captivity for over three months and they include 33 male adults, seven male children, three female children, and 25 women including pregnant/nursing mothers respectively. “The victims held were from Magarya, Maradun, Gusau of Zamfara state and Sabon Birni LGA in Sokoto state. “On Monday, 3rd January, 2022, police tactical operatives deployed in Tsafe axis acted on intelligence report and stormed Kunchin Kalgo forest in Tsafe LGA and rescued 29 kidnapped victims unconditionally. “The victims were abducted for over 60 days from three villages namely; Adarawa, Gana and Bayawuri in Rijiya district of Gusau LGA. They include 25 females, including pregnant/nursing mothers and 4 four male children. The victims were said to have been abducted by a bandits’ kingpin, Ado Aleru.” The police commissioner said all the victims are currently receiving medical treatment, adding that they will be debriefed and handed over to the government before being reunited with their families. TheCable had reported that some bandits’ leaders were reportedly killed by troops during an operation by the air force component of operation Hadarin Daji in communities across the state.