A group of advertising companies will be showcasing the achievements of Babajide Sanwo-Olu, governor of Lagos state, on their top light-emitting diode (LED) media platforms to applaud his efforts. Gbenga Omotoso, commissioner for information and strategy, said this in a statement issued on Monday. The companies include Elevate Media, New Crystal, Plural Media, Invent Media, Nimbus Media and Just Brandit. As part of their corporate social responsibility (CSR), the statement added that the agencies would be showcasing all completed works of Sanwo-Olu, especially in housing and roads. “This strategic support comes in the form of amplifying the giant strides of Governor Sanwo-Olu via the state-of-the-art LED boards owned by these top OOH companies across designated locations in the state. The outdoor agencies involved are doing this probono as corporate social responsibility,” the statement reads. “The purpose of the corporate social responsibility initiative by the players in Nigeria’s OOH sub-sector of the marketing communications industry is to bring to the fore, Sanwo-Olu’s quality leadership style in providing strategic direction for the growth of the state, which is aspiring to be a smart city. “Apart from creating an enabling environment for businesses and technical support that encourages the private sector to play its envisaged role, Sanwo-Olu has left no stone unturned in helping corporate players direct their energies and contribute to the improvement of the quality of life of Lagosians. “His administration’s strategic infrastructural development is designed to provide support in a coordinated and integrated manner to encourage new investments, create jobs, as well as improve social services. “Housing projects have been opened in Badagry, Ibeshe, Igbogbo, Igando, Sangotedo, Surulere and others.” The statement further added that the outdoor advertising firm will be streaming video clips of the projects within the metropolis. Omotoso appreciated the group’s initiative, saying it is an indication that they have the state at heart. “We appreciate this laudable gesture, and Mr Governor is particularly excited that these companies are creating the right awareness for our programmes and activities,” Omotoso said.