Some volunteer groups consisting of loyalists of Sani Yerima, former governor of Zamfara, have begun mobilising support for the former lawmaker’s presidential bid. The development comes months after Yerima, a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC), announced his interest to contest the presidency in the 2023 general election. Aside from Yerima who announced his presidential ambition in July 2021, others who have expressed interest include Bola Tinubu, chieftain of the All Progressives Congress; Dave Umahi, governor of Ebonyi; and Anyim Pius Anyim, former senate president. The groups, under the umbrella of the Yerima Support Organisation (YSO), on Wednesday, donated branded vehicles, mobile telephones and other items in preparation for the campaign of the former governor. Speaking at the event which held in Ibadan, the Oyo capital, Oluyemi Olusina, personal assistant to the former lawmaker, said the volunteers decided to support Yerima’s decision to run for president, considering his achievements as governor and senator. Olusina also said Yerima has been informed of the actions of the group even though he is still holding consultations on his presidential bid. “This event is about launching volunteers and support for the presidential ambition of Yerima. They are under YSO, an umbrella organisation which houses all other volunteer groups which support Yerima’s 2023 presidential ambition,” he said. “We have over 10 million people under those groups in YSO 2023. This is a huge figure collated over the years. “Ibadan is the political capital of the south-west. Among the branded vehicles donated for the project, four were bought by Ibadan indigenes. Funds have also been donated but we must note that Yerima does not control YSO and its activities. “Coming to Ibadan has nothing to do with Tinubu’s ambition. Yerima was a presidential aspirant in 2007 before he stepped down for Muhammadu Buhari under All Nigeria Peoples Party. More of this event will be held across Nigeria from now on.” Aminu Bature, coordinator of the YSO, said he was impressed with the turnout, adding that the group will support Yerima because the country “needs a committed leader who does not discriminate against any race”. Asked if the introduction of Sharia law in Zamfara by the former governor will affect Yerima’s chances, Bature said the people asked for the law. “Yerima did not bring Sharia. The people gave the condition that they would support him in exchange for Sharia law. Due process was followed before the introduction of the law. It has nothing to do with his presidential ambition,” he added.