The Super Eagles of Nigeria scored early in both halves to make it two wins from two matches at the African Cup of Nation (AFCON) in Cameroon. A 3-1 win over Sudan put Coach Austin Eguavoen’s side into the knockout phase. It was another good display from several Nigerian players and TheCable Sports reviews the professional job done by the squad in the straightforward victory. Maduka Okoye (3/5): Had little to do but showed his jittery side in the second half. Dropped the ball in a dangerous situation and his defenders appeared to have lost trust in him thereafter. Could not have saved Sudan’s penalty. Okoye needs to toughen up with the knockout stages still to come. William Troost-Ekong(4/5): Was the more expressive central defender in this match and showed his dangerous attacking side from set-pieces, with his header setting up Awoniyi’s freak goal. His distribution could be better but it was another good day for him. Kenneth Omeruo (3/5): Laid-back in this match doing the necessary with minimal force and allowing his captain to take charge of attacking duties from the back. He mopped up effectively with minimal fuss despite Sudan’s huffs and puffs. Zaidu Sanusi (3.5/5): Most of Sudan’s attacks came through his side and although he got little assistance from the midfield, the Porto defender did his job with aplomb. An easy day for the Porto left-back. Ola Aina (3.5/5): Continued to show more attacking threat with mazy runs, remained an extra attacking outlet on the right. The Torino man’s good performance was dented by the penalty he conceded for unnecessary fouls. Wilfred Ndidi (4/5): Battling as ever to win the midfield matchups despite his reduced passing accuracy today on a day the Super Eagles were measured in their approach after a few goals. Joe Aribo (4/5): Proving to be an effective box-to-box player for the Eagles. He created attacking situations in abundance and went close to a few opportunities. Another good day in the office for the Rangers man. Kelechi Iheanacho (3/5): Played further upfront in this encounter and was a little quiet. Put himself in dangerous positions but the ball did not come to him in the box. Delivered the free-kick that led to the second goal. Moses Simon (4.5/5): Man of the match. Continued from where he left off against Egypt with a third-minute assist for Chukwueze’s goal. Waited until the 15th minute before showcasing his quick feet and dribbling skills. He also got a goal to consolidate on his spectacular performance. Samuel Chukwueze (4/5): The 22-year-old wanted to prove his quiet start against Egypt was a fluke as he converted the first chance of the match in the third minute. Was a constant threat to Sudan as he attracted a plethora of fouls while also creating opportunities. He was subbed off at the start of the second half but had already influenced the game in Nigeria’s favour. Taiwo Awoniyi (4/5): The bullish striker burst into life towards the end of the half with shots and chance creation before getting the goal his performance deserved on the stroke of halftime — his first-ever goal for the Super Eagles. He can only improve as the tournament goes into the latter stages. Substitutes Alex Iwobi (3/5): Showed nice touches, runs, and passing from his advanced central midfield role but the final pass was lacking. A good cameo appearance with little end product. Kelechi Nwakali (N/A): He was a late substitute. Ahmed Musa (N/A): A good run out for the veteran winger. Umar Sadiq (N/A): Another good few minutes for the Spain-based languid striker. He showed he could be a good deputy for Awoniyi.