Just as the world was celebrating the transition to a new year, news filtered in that Salihu Adetunji, the Olubadan of Ibadan, had passed on. Adetunji, who was crowned as the 41st Olubadan in March 2016, died at the University College Hospital, Ibadan, Oyo state in the early hours of Sunday. He was laid to rest according to Islamic rites hours after. Following the death of the monarch, discussions on who takes over the helm of affairs at the palace have begun to gather momentum. In the hierarchy of Ibadan chiefs, Lekan Balogun, a former senator and currently the Otun Olubadan, who is the second-in-command to the throne, is next in line to be king. Other Ibadan chiefs include Rashidi Ladoja, former governor of Oyo and the Osi Olubadan; Owolabi Olakulehin, Balogun Olubadan; Olufemi Olaifa, Otun Balogun; ‎Eddy Oyewole, Ashipa Olubadan; Tajudeen Ajibola, Osi Balogun; Amidu Ajibade, Ekaarun Olubada; Lateef Gbadamosi, Ashipa Balogun Olubadan; Kola Adegbola, Ekarun Balogun‎, and Abiodun Kola-Daisi, Ekerin Olubadan‎. WHO IS LEKAN BALOGUN? Born in October 1942, Lekan Balogun is a businessman, author, and a household name in Oyo politics. According to a tribute written in 2017 by Mujitaba Armstrong-Bello of the Council of Ibadan Indigenes in Kano — Balogun had just clocked 75 at the time — the former lawmaker had his primary education at CAC Modern School, Anlugbua, now in Iwo, Osun, while he stayed with Hamzat Balogun, his brother. He is said to have “secretly” studied for the General Certificate of Education, Ordinary Level examination using his brother’s materials, after which he travelled to the United Kingdom to further his education. After his academic quest in the UK, he paddled into Nigerian politics in 1978 when he joined the People’s Redemption Party (PRP) founded by the late Aminu Kano. He remained within the corridors of politics and with the military handover, was elected to the senate and served between 1999 and 2003, when he contested for the seat of Oyo governor but lost to Rashidi Ladoja. During his time in the red chamber, he was chairman, senate committee on national planning, as well as other senate committees such as appropriations, security and intelligence, police affairs and defence. The 79-year-old holds doctorate, master and bachelor degrees in public administration, social administration and economics. Balogun is also a board member of several companies with interests in oil and gas, trade, consultancy, and agriculture. ‘HIS CORONATION WILL BE FIRST FROM HIS LINEAGE IN OVER 60 YEARS’ Meanwhile, family members, friends and well-wishers of the Otun Olubadan of Ibadanland are said to be preparing for celebration with crowds gathering at the Aliiwo compound and Balogun’s residence in Alarere, Ibadan. According to NAN, as of Sunday afternoon, the two compounds featured traditional drummers as well wishers joined in songs which focused on the anticipation of Balogun’s installation as the next Olubadan. Some family members who spoke with NAN couldn’t hide their excitement at the prospect of producing the next king. Mukaila Adebisi, identified as a family member, said the last time the Aliiwo compound produced the Olubadan was in 1952. Meanwhile, as Ibadan awaits the rites for the installation of the next king, one of the major steps towards coronation will kick off with an official declaration by the Oyo state government.