The Zamfara police command says it rescued 21 Islamiyya school children abducted by bandits along the Gusau-Tsafe-Funtuwa road on Friday. Mohammed Shehu, spokesperson of the command, disclosed this in a statement on Saturday. Shehu said the victims were rescued by security operatives after a gun duel with the bandits. According to him, the Islamiyya school children and their teacher were travelling from Rini, Bakura LGA of Zamfara to Katsina state when the armed bandits blocked the highway and abducted many commuters along the road. He, however, said Lawali Ibrahim, the Islamiyya school teacher, one bus driver, alongside other commuters are still with the abductors. “On 31st December, 2021, at about 2300hrs, a distress call was received from Kucheri Village Via Tsafe LGA that armed bandits in their large number blocked Gusau-Funtua federal highway at Kucheri axis, and abducted an unspecified number of commuters in five different vehicles,” the statement reads. “Police tactical operatives in conjunction with the military promptly responded to the distress call and moved to the scene, where they engaged the hoodlums in a serious gun battle. “The police operatives succeeded in rescuing 21 kidnapped children including two females who were coming from Rini village in Bakura LGA to Katsina state for Almajiri Islamiyya school, along with their teacher named Lawali Ibrahim. “The said scholar, Lawali Ibrahim, and the driver of their Hummer bus are among the victims that are currently in captivity.” Shehu stated that Ayuba Elkanah, the commissioner of police in the state, has already sent a reinforcement of police operatives to complement the effort of the joint security operatives currently working to rescue the remaining victims and apprehend the perpetrators. “The Zamfara state police command is calling on the general public, especially drivers and passengers, to desist from night journey,” he added. “The nighttime is the period that is mostly used by the bandits to block roads and kidnap commuters in the state. “On its part, the police command will continue to work assiduously to ensure the safety and security of the citizenry.”