The Defence Headquarters (DHQ) says a total of 863 persons, including insurgents and their family members, surrendered in the last two weeks. The insurgents were said to have surrendered to troops of operation Hadin Kai in the north-east. In a statement on Thursday, the DHQ said the insurgents have been handed over to the appropriate authorities. “Some of the operations were conducted at different locations in towns, villages and forests under; Konduga, Mafa, Dikwa, Gwoza, Bama, Bayo, Kukawa, Monguno, Nganzai and Damboa LGAs of Borno as well as locations in the Sambisa forest,” the statement reads. “Troops also recorded significant results at various locations in Adamawa and Yobe States, around the Mandara Mountain and along Damaturu – Potuskum road, respectively. Notably, ground troops with the support of the Air Component aggressively foiled terrorists’ attempted infiltration into Biu town in Borno State. During the encounter, troops neutralized scores of the terrorists and captured their gun trucks and other weapons. “These operations resulted in the elimination and arrest of several terrorists, recovery of assorted arms, ammunition, livestock and other items of security concern as well as rescue of abducted civilians. Furthermore, troops’ operational activities have continued to drive terrorists out of their camps into surrendering with their arms and families in the North East Zone of the Country. Consequently, within this period under review, own troops neutralized a total of 37 terrorist elements, arrested 17 of them as well as recovered 21 assorted arms and 117 rounds of different calibres of ammunition, while a total of 4 gun trucks were captured from the terrorists. Additionally, troops rescued a total of 16 abducted civilians within the period. “A total of 863 terrorists and their families comprising 136 adult males, 251 adult females and 476 children surrendered to own troops deployed at different locations, including; Banki, Bama, Dikwa, Gwoza and Gamboru towns in Borno State, within the period. The surrendered terrorists have been properly profiled and handed over to appropriate authorities for necessary actions.” The DHQ added that the air component of operation Hadin Kai also recorded success when it hit “terrorists’ stronghold at ArinaChiki village in the Lake Chad Basin in Borno state”.