Buba Marwa, chairman of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), has asked the new officers of the agency to be well prepared for challenges ahead as they resume at their duty posts. Speaking on Saturday at the passing-out parade of 2,000 narcotics assistants at the NDLEA academy in Jos, Plateau state, Marwa said the society needs protection from drug traffickers. According to a statement by Femi Babafemi, NDLEA spokesman, the chairman said failure to tackle illicit drug use could jeopardise the society if professionalism isn’t maintained by officers at all times. “It is pertinent that I repeat at this occasion the advice I have given those who went ahead of you: Beware of the lure of filthy lucre,” Marwa, who was represented by Yakubu Bako, an aide of the agency, said. “As you go about your duty, there will be inducement with money and calculated efforts to derail you from doing your duty by drug traffickers, fixers and barons. Never compromise! “Do not forget that society needs protection from these bad actors, and any failure in your duty can directly or indirectly jeopardise society, including your family. “Hence, every encounter with the illicit drug underworld should be a moment of strength and not a moment of weakness. “As the saying goes, to whom much is given, much is expected. NDLEA has raised its standard. The bars of work ethics, discipline and performance have been raised to make our work dynamics very competitive. “To this extent, you are coming in at a time the Agency has become a place for achievers and not laggards. So, you must know that NDLEA is not a place for indolence.” He also encouraged the officers to remain committed in the performance of their duty in the interest of addressing illicit drug use. “We are a goal-oriented organisation and every officer is to contribute his share to the attainment of organisational goals,” he said. “You can all revel in the fact that we reward performance. With the change process that has taken place since January 2021, you can rest assured that NDLEA is a good place to be, now or in the future and you can look forward to a fulfilling career.”