BudgIT Foundation, a civic tech organisation, has launched FixOurOil, a web platform, to promote transparency and fiscal accountability in the extraction sector. The foundation disclosed this in a statement issued on Monday in Lagos. Gabriel Okeowo, country director, BudgIT Nigeria, said the firm had gone the extra mile to carry out thorough research to help people spotlight useful information in the extractive sector. “This platform is advantageous for everyone. Users can access the latest information on the oil and gas sector such as data on the number of barrels produced for a particular month, and sales, and loss accused as a result of theft and operational accidents,” Okeowo said. Iyanu Fatoba, communications officer, BudgIT, said the website would provide individuals, civil society organisations (CSOs), and the media with data and insights that can be leveraged to improve awareness on government positions on issues centred on the oil and gas industry. “This is our first website and a platform for extracting issues. We have discovered over the years that people have had problems with getting simplified data as regards the extracting industry and this has not only distrusted transparency in the sector but has also resulted in limited job opportunities for the citizens in the oil and gas sector,” Fatoba said. “Through the launching of the FixOurOil website, we believe that citizens can demand more effective resource governance in the industry using information gotten from the platform.” Fatoba also said the web portal provides information ranging from policies and stakeholders review that can be for beneficial ownership reform and data for investigating reporting. “The platform serves as a repository for BudgIT latest data on reforms within Nigeria’s state-owned enterprises, infographics, policy briefs, interactive videos, blog posts, progress tracker for the open government partnership (OGP) initiative, petroleum industry act implementation as well as data segments that consist of simplified NNPC data from their monthly financial and operations reports,” Fatoba explained. “We have carried out in-depth research and built relationships with some of the agents in the extracting sector, so we able to engage them and get data that will be useful, we also act as a bridge between the people and that sector so that they get to know what and to demand accountability.”