Babajide Sanwo-Olu, governor of Lagos, says the state’s metro rail lines will commence operation before the end of the year. The governor said this on Monday after an inspection tour of the project sites in Ikeja, Yaba, Oyingbo/Ebute Metta and Marina. The Blue Line is designed to start from Okokomaiko and terminate at Marina, while the Red Line runs from Agbado to Marina. Speaking to journalists after the tour, Sanwo-Olu explained that the monitoring of the project would be done quarterly until it is completed. “Our promise is on course, we believe before the end of this year, we will see trains on top of these tracks. That is our commitment but we will continue to monitor and check ourselves,” he said. “In the last three and a half hours, we have gone round to see the constructions ongoing between the Red Line and Blue Line. “I am happy to report as you all have seen that the constructions are going on as scheduled. Despite today being a public holiday, the contractors are on site. “You can see where we are coming from, the Ikeja iconic station which will be the most iconic for Red Line, almost the same size as that of Marina. We were able to see that the last time, they were just at the foundation level, but they are now in the second floor before they will get to the fourth floor which will be the final. “There will be an overpass at Awolowo Way to Agege Motor Road. Everything is on course, and we are hoping, especially the bridge components will be finished before schedule because of the impact of the traffic on the motorists around the corridor. “At Yaba, we wanted to make a detour into Mushin but because of the logistics of how to get into the Mushin station, noting there will be an overpass and a station also at Mushin. “At Yaba, the last time we were there, they were still excavating, but right now they are working to go to the second floor. You also saw the beams and they have been given a marching order to keep to the timeline. “At Ebute Metta, there will be an overpass from Muritala Mohammed Road up to Apapa Road. They are launching the columns, the station is far ahead because they have completed the station. “The Marina station is the most iconic for the Blue Line and the beams there will be launched. We have had precast beams stored at the National Art Theatre within six weeks, they should complete the launching.” The governor also disclosed the state government’s plan to relocate the market around the train station at Yaba. He added that the government is engaging concerned stakeholders on how best to relocate traders to another place.