The Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) has suspended Burkina Faso over the recent military takeover of the country. The military in Burkina Faso, on Monday, said it had seized power and overthrown President Roch Kaboré. The announcement, signed by Paul-Henri Sandaogo Damiba, a lieutenant-colonel, was read by another officer on state television. The development came hours after Kaboré was said to have been detained by mutinying soldiers. In a communique issued on Friday after a meeting of ECOWAS leaders chaired by Nana Akufo-Addo, president of Ghana and chairman of the ECOWAS authority, the organisation demanded the immediate release of Kaboré and return to constitutional order. “The Authority, during deliberations, strongly condemns the coup d’Etat and expresses deep concern over the resurgence of military coups in the region following the coup d’Etats in Mali on 18 August 2020, in Guinea on 5 September 2021 and in Burkina Faso on 24 January 2022,” the communique reads. “The coup d’Etat in Burkina Faso was achieved by obtaining the resignation of President Roch Marc Christian Kabore under duress. “The Authority reaffirms its resolute commitment to upholding the zero tolerance for acceding power through unconstitutional means as enshrined in the 2001 ECOWAS supplementary protocol on democracy and good governance.” The organisation said it “demands the immediate release and protection of President Roch Marc Christian Kabore and all the other political detainees”, adding that it has also decided to “suspend Burkina Faso from all ECOWAS Institutions”. ECOWAS also instructed its Committee of Chiefs of Defence Staff (CCDS) to “forthwith deploy a delegation to Burkina Faso to hold consultations with the military leaders to carry out an assessment of the security situation in the country and submit a report to be reviewed by the Authority of Heads of State and Government”. A joint ECOWAS ministerial mission is also expected to be deployed to Burkina Faso on January 31, 2022 to “assess the political situation and submit their report to the Authority of Heads of State and Government”. “The United Nations Special Representative to West Africa and Sahel and the African Union will participate in this mission,” ECOWAS added. “The Authority decides to convene an Extraordinary Summit on 3rd February, 2022, in Accra, Ghana to re-examine the situation in Burkina, Guinea and Mali.”