BY HENRY UKAZU Dear Destiny Friends, It is a great pleasure to be alive to witness the year 2022. The year 2021 has come and gone with it’s own challenges and blessings. It’s quite interesting to note that every year, we make new resolutions and plans with respect to our ambitions, desires and expectations but it’s unfortunate to note we barely do what’s necessary to achieve our dreams. The year 2022 is promising and pregnant with opportunities like every other year year, but the difference between each year is the implementation or execution of your plans. As progressive beings with a passion to influence and make impacts in the world, we all get inspired reading and watching great men/ women, we get information and knowledge that’s capable of changing our lives, but what we lack is the execution and implementation strategy and what’s what we shall be discussing in this article. The first point of call for anyone who truly desires to succeed in life and in 2022 is to ask and answer the question, what do I want in 2022 and in life? This question might appear trivial and simple, but it’s very powerful. As a matter of fact it is a question every rational and progressive mind ought to ask oneself on a daily basis. At every stage of your life you have to continually ask yourself, am I working on my assignment or am I working on my purpose? Your assignment is different from your purpose. There are many dynamics that comes with purpose and assignment but that’s a conversation for another day. When you discover or know what you want in in 2022 or in life, the next point of call is to plan your strategy. Let me tell you, nor matter the level of inspiration, information and impact you may receive if you lack the right strategy to implement or execute your ideas, your plans is as good as dead. You may be wondering how do one plan one’s life? The formula is below: Plan Carefully: It’s an indisputable fact that failing to prepare is preparing to fail. In 2022, you must plan your life. Planning doesn’t entail mere wishing or strategizing, you must go the extra mile to lay a solid foundation and work on your project/task. If it means learning from someone, been a mentee, learning a skill, reading a chapter of a book, or even meditating on how to know more about yourself. Launch: After planning, the next stage is to launch. If you have any idea which has not seen the light of the day, it’s as good as dead. A plan without execution is a mere wish. Launching a project can be challenging, but it’s doable. You don’t have to be completely prepared before you launch a project. You don’t have to wait for the cloud or sky to be clear before you execute your idea. Let me tell tell you, done is better than perfect. By the time you launch your project, there’s likely to be mistakes, it’s those mistakes that will teach you on how to advance to the next stage. Adjust: This is another critical area of your life. Life is not a straight road, it has bumps, roads signs like red light, yellow light and green light all signifying different things. Great minds with growth mindset adjust their paths when they have constructive criticism, but people with fixed mindset are always static with their thought process as being open to change. Network: You cannot underscore the value of network. Networking is priceless. The height anyone can go in life can be determined by the level of friendship they keep. Your ability to relate with people in a cordial way will go a long way to create opportunities for you especially when you have the right attitude and human personal relationship skills. As mentioned earlier, you might have all this great ideas, but if you lack the right strategy to implement it, you might be stuck, however if you need someone to guide you depending on the project or change you’ll like to see in your life, business or organization, I’ll be glad to serve you. In conclusion, 2022 is here for you to grab, you must do the needful by being intentional and deliberate in your actions and thought process. Nobody will make the year work for you without you investing in yourself. Henry Ukazu writes from New York. He’s a Human Capacity & mindset coach. He’s also a public speaker. He works with the New York City Department of Correction as the Legal Coordinator. He’s the author of the acclaimed book Design Your Destiny – Actualizing Your Birthright To Success and President of gloemi.com. He can be reached via info@gloemi.com