The Oyo government says two new cases of Lassa fever have been recorded in the state. In a statement on Monday, Bode Ladipo, the state commissioner for health, said the attention of the ministry was drawn to reports of deaths associated with fever, gastrointestinal symptoms and neck swelling in Iwajowa LGA on January 12. According to NAN, a “high-level investigating team” comprising senior officials of the ministry, the state’s primary healthcare board and the World Health Organisation (WHO) visited the area on January 13 to assess the situation. “An initial visit to the General Hospital at Iwere-lle revealed the fact that there was an increase in the number of cases brought from Gaa Agbaruru settlement, with confirmation of two deaths at the facility,” the statement reads. “The team was then led to Gaa Agbaruru, a Fulani settlement in Iwere ward of the local government area, where the victims of the illness came from. “It was observed that there were cases with symptoms mentioned above but were recuperating. “It was also confirmed that there was indeed a high degree of contact between the inhabitants, rodents and bats. In addition, the challenge of having potable water was noted. “Blood samples were taken from the recuperating individuals with samples of water also taken. These samples were sent to the National Reference Laboratory for haemorrhagic fever in Abuja for analysis and confirmation. “The result of the investigation from the laboratory was received on Monday, with two of the 10 samples testing positive for Lassa fever. “Suspected cases are to be referred to the nearest government hospital for free and quality care. “The state government has already set up surveillance systems across local government areas in the state to abate further transmission of the disease. “The Ministry of Health has repositioned doses of antiviral agents for treatment of the reported cases. Also, personal protective devices have been provided for health care providers at Iwere-Ile and Iganna areas.” The commissioner asked residents to remain calm, adding that they should refer similar cases to the nearest government hospitals and call these numbers — 09058704101, 08025245800 and 08073431342 — for immediate attention.