A faction of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Osun, who are supporters of Rauf Aregbesola, former governor of the state, has criticised Gboyega Famodun on his “inability to manage the party” as the chairman. On January 14, during a gathering in Ilesa, Aregbesola, minister of interior, had declared his support for the Rasaq Salinsile-led APC faction in Osun. But reacting to the development in a statement over the weekend, Famodun said the declaration by the minister is below expectation, considering his position in the country. Responding to Famodun’s comment, Abiodun Agboola, the factional publicity secretary, described the APC chairman as a “failed party administrator”. “Famodun confirmed our position a long time ago of his inability to manage the party. His inability to know when to talk and when not to talk is a serious defect on his person,” he said. “Eventually, Famodun owns up to the fact that he is not fit to be the chairman by virtue of his response to the comment made by the minister of interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola. “This type of attitude makes reconciliation almost impossible with such character. Famodun’s pains which brought out his true colour as an unfit character to administer a purposeful political party, as we have always stated, was the bitter truth in the minister’s statement which he and his cohorts have in futility denied over time. “It is an undisputed fact that a lie told a thousand times will forever remain a lie. The minister admitted there the party is divided and added that work was ongoing to reunite the party members. “It is a fact that Famodun was unable to administer the APC for seven years which degeneration was brought to the fore by The Osun Progressives (TOP) which Famodun and company attempted to play down but was established by the minister. “Famodun shouldn’t forget, or because of his inadequate education, that it is a constitutionally guaranteed right to express opinion and associate with anybody. “It is not surprising that because of his inglorious need to please his paymaster, Famodun decided to act and talk irresponsibly about the former governor. Even though Aregbesola has left government, Famodun lacks the integrity and morality to make enemy of him. “The National Caretaker and Extraordinary Committee and the Senator Abdullahi Adamu-led reconciliation committee should take judicious note of this particular reaction of Famodun. “We have said it before that the man is incapable and not competent to be a party chairman, because he lacks the required knowledge and temperament to resolve crisis, which is the main thing in party management. If Famodun believes in resolution, he wouldn’t have reacted like that. It was unreasonable and irresponsible.”