Another car winner and 108 other winners of various appliances yesterday emerged in Globacom’s Joy Unlimited Extravaganza promotion event held in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. While Patrick Obekpa, a real estate businessman, drove home a brand new Kia Rio car, 32 other Glo subscribers went home with refrigerators. 38 received power generators just as another 38 also went home with television sets. Obekpa who could not hold back his excitement said, “I was on my way to the office when I got the call that I had won the car. Everything since that point has been like a dream. I have for a few months been saving up to replace my old car which was involved in an accident. That is why this gesture from Glo is stunning. I am forever bonded for life with the Glo brand from today.” Some of the winners who spoke at the event thanked Globacom for the wonderful opportunity. A refrigerator winner, Maryam Buda, a Business Administration student of Taraba State University, stated, “I was surprised as I was in Taraba State when I got the call. I feel great and want to say a big thank you to Glo for making me feel special today.” The sentiments were shared by Joseph Negedu, a television winner. “Wow! Just like that, I have a brand new television and it’s all thanks to Glo. It is truly wonderful and I’m so glad I belong to a network that cares about its subscribers”, he told the audience. L-R: Assistant Director of the National LotteryRegulatory Commission, Mr. Martins Oteh; Car prize winner, PatrickObekpa; Rep of the President, National Industrial Court, HonourableE.N. Agbakoba; Asst Director, Nigeria Communication Commission, MrMoses Iyi; Globacom North Central Regional Manager, Kazeem Kaka, at theprize presentation ceremony for winners in Globacom’s Joy UnlimitedExtravaganza Promo in Abuja, yesterday Globacom’s State Activation Manager, Ibrahim Katsina, who spoke on behalf of the company at the event remarked, “We launched this promo in furtherance of our commitment to give more value to our subscribers as they use their Glo lines. It has been an honour to have fulfilled the promises we made to our subscribers”. The Assistant Director of the National Lottery Regulatory Commission, Mr. Martins Oteh, praised Globacom’s fidelity to its subscribers. He said: “Throughout this consumer promotion, Globacom has time and time again fulfilled all its promises to consumers for their participation in the promo. They have created a win-win situation for both them and their subscribers”. Overall, seventeen prize presentation events of the Glo Joy Unlimited Extravaganza promo have been held across Nigerian cities where thousands of Glo subscribers have been presented with valuable home appliances such as television sets, refrigerators and power generators. This is in addition to the over 5,000 customers who on a daily basis win data plans and other Glo freebies in the promo. The 15th car winner and winners of other items are billed to be announced at a similar event in Lagos on the 27th of January at Gloworld, Adeola Odeku, Victoria Island. [1] “This email, together with any attachments, is for the exclusive and confidential use of the address(es) and may contain legally privileged information. Any other distribution, use or reproduction without the sender’s prior consent is unauthorized and strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error, please notify the sender by email immediately and delete this message from your computer without making any copies. Globacom is a Limited Liability Company with registration number 439916 and address at Mike Adenuga Towers, 1 Mike Adenuga Close, Off Adeola Odeku, Victoria Island, Lagos, Nigeria. Globacom Limited is registered to deliver Telecommunications services.”