The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) says it recovered and returned 11 houses to Arthur Eze, a businessman. In a statement issued on Monday, Wilson Uwujaren, EFCC spokesperson, said the houses were recovered in Enugu from Olisaebuka Eze and Onyeka Eze, who worked as administrative and finance managers respectively for the businessman. The anti-graft agency said the culprits who are nephews to the business mogul “used proceeds of their alleged criminal activities” to acquire the properties. “The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Enugu Zonal Command on Friday, January 28, 2022, returned eleven houses recovered in different parts of Enugu to Chief Arthur Eze,” the statement reads. “The properties were recovered by the EFCC from the duo of Olisaebuka Okechukwu Eze and Onyeka Nnadozie Eze, administration and finance manager respectively in Arthur Eze’s firm, accused of criminal breach of trust and diversion of funds belonging to the business mogul. “The investigation established that the duos who are also nephews of Chief Eze, used proceeds of their alleged criminal activities to acquire choice properties in Enugu and other parts of South Eastern Nigeria. “The Commission in the course of the investigation initiated forfeiture proceedings against the two company officials before Justice I.M Buba of the Federal High Court, Enugu, which granted an interim order of forfeiture of the said properties, directing the defendants to show cause why the properties should not be finally forfeited. “In the absence of any contrary information, the Court on October 18, 2021, ordered that the properties be finally forfeited and returned to the nominal complainant, Chief Arthur Eze.” While receiving the properties, the businessman thanked the EFCC for ensuring that justice is served in the case. “I am grateful to the Executive Chairman of the EFCC, Mr. Abdulrasheed Bawa, the Zonal Commander and all your men who fought for justice to be served,” he said. “I am aware that, at some point, your men risked their lives for this cause. I pray that God who has been keeping you will always protect you. I am here in person to thank you for all that you did for me when those whom I call my own, stole from me.”