The Human and Environmental Development Agenda (HEDA) has asked Usman Baba, inspector-general of police (IGP), to probe Hakeem Odumosu, Lagos commissioner of police, over “misuse of privilege”. On Saturday, the police commissioner, who was attending a social event at Magodo Brooks Estate in Lagos, ordered the arrest of four security guards over their “refusal to allow” him entry into the estate. Odumosu also ordered the arrest of one Adebola Fatiregun, a female resident who is a widow, and her three children for intervening in the matter. Explaining the commissioner’s action, Adekunle Ajisebutu, Lagos police spokesman, said the CP visited the estate to meet a “strategic partner” but was refused entry by some private security guards, even after being formally introduced. The development has sparked varied reactions on and off social media with many Nigerians, including Inibehe Effiong, human rights lawyer, faulting the action of Odumosu. Reacting, HEDA, in a statement by Olanrenwaju Suraju, its chairman, asked Babajide Sanwo-Olu, governor of the state, to apologise to victims of Odumosu’s “breach of public peace and violation of human rights”. “The Human & Environmental Development Agenda (HEDA Resource Centre) wishes to express dissatisfaction over the widely reported arrest of some security guards,” the statement said. “And a passer-by widow with three children, at Brooks Estate in Magodo, Lagos by the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Mr. Hakeem Odumosu, on Saturday, January 1st, 2022. “It was reported and admitted by the force that the commissioner of police was on a “private social visit” to a friend holding a function in the estate, thus, was expected to act in a civil manner, befitting his class in the society. “More so it was expected of Mr. Odumosu to show a sense of mental maturity by playing by the rules guiding entry and exit of the estate executed by the security guards. “As we know, there are rules guiding every territory, since Mr. Commissioner was not going for a war (where protocol in an environment may be thwarted), one expects him to follow the unbureaucratic due process at the main gate as it is obtained in every organized clime. “We are not ignorant of those sentiments which triggered the CP’s actions against those diligent security guards. The brouhaha -particularly the gridlock at Isheri, this incident has caused is disturbing and highly condemnable. “We are also not unaware that the Nigeria police would not spare anyone who tries to disobey its protocol at the entry point of its facilities or anyone who resists its security personnel at the gate. “If the public are expected to cooperate with the police at any point in time, why would the police not respect other people’s rules? “We invite the inspector-general of police to order an investigation into the misuse of privilege by the Lagos commissioner of police and further call on Lagos state governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu. “As the elected governor of state and chief security officer to apologize to o the affected victims of Mr. Odumosu’s breach of public peace and violation of human rights.”