Hadiza Bala Usman, former managing director of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), has challenged anyone with evidence that she failed to remit funds into the federal government purse to present it to the public. Usman said this in a statement issued on Tuesday. She said the statement became necessary to counter reports suggesting that the NPA failed to remit funds on her watch. “Media reports alleging that the Auditor-General of the Federation have issued some queries regarding monies being owed the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), by Terminal Operators have come to my attention,” the statement reads. “Ordinarily, the NPA should clear the air about these allegations, and for this reason, I have refused to make any comments since the news broke. “However, it is becoming more apparent that tarnishing my image is the primary mission of promoters of the story. “On Tuesday morning, for instance, several people sent me a social media post with the title: ‘NPA Audit indicts Hadiza Bala Usman for not remitting N40b, $921.61m and £289.931.82 to federal government accounts.’ “I make bold to say that this report is untrue and a fallacy from the imagination of anyone spreading the falsehood. I also challenge anyone with proofs of this allegation to present them in public.” Usman added that funds unremitted into the federal government’s accounts remain in the treasury single account (TSA). “The truth is that even if there are monies unremitted into the federal government’s accounts, these monies will remain in the Treasury Single Account (TSA) where all revenues generated by the Authority domicile,” she said. “I also challenge anyone with proofs of this allegation to present them in public. “In addition, the Authority will have explanations for any audit queries that may arise, whenever they do.” In May 2021, President Muhammadu Buhari approved her suspension as the managing director of the NPA following a recommendation by Rotimi Amaechi, minister of transportation, to set up an administrative panel of inquiry to investigate the management of the NPA.