One person was killed following an attempted attack on the palace of E.C. Okeke, Ezeudo II of Amaefeke, in Orlu LGA of Imo state. Okeke is the chairman of the Imo state traditional rulers council. Mike Abattam, Imo police public relations officer (PPRO), confirmed the incident. Abattam, in a statement, said hoodlums attacked the palace in the early hours of Monday. He said owing to the recent attack on traditional rulers in the state, Rabiu Hussain, the commissioner of police, had deployed police patrol teams to communities and palaces. He said the strategy paid off as a combined team of the police and a vigilante group repelled the attack on the palace by engaging the hoodlums in a gun duel, killing one of the suspects. “Sequel to the recent attacks on the palaces of some traditional rulers in the state by some unknown gunmen, the Commissioner of Police, Imo State Command, CP Rabiu Hussaini, psc in order to curb this menace deployed the command’s tactical teams to patrol every community in the state, while closely monitoring the palaces of traditional rulers,” Abattam said. “Today, the 3rd of January, 2022, at about 0100hrs, the strategy paid off as the Command’s tactical teams working in synergy with vigilante group of the area were able to repel the attack/attempt to set the palace of Eze Imo, HRH Eze Dr E.C. Okeke, on fire by men suspected to be members of the proscribed IPOB/ESN group at Ezioha Amaifeke in Orlu LGA of Owerri, Imo State. “The hoodlums, in their numbers, besieged the palace of the traditional ruler armed with assorted weapons but were subdued by the superior fire-power of the Command’s tactical teams and in the process, one of the hoodlums was neutralised, while others fled into the bush with bullet injuries. “On searching the body of the neutralised bandit, several charms were seen tied round his waist. Other items also recovered include one ID Clcard, one locally made improvised explosive device, five bottles containing fuel, cash of N20,000 only, one pump action gun with four live cartridges.” The PPRO said the command’s tactical teams were combing the bush for the fleeing members of the gang.