President Muhammadu Buhari, on Wednesday, sent a delegation to Zamfara over the recent killings in the state. Last week, bandits had invaded about five communities located in Bukkuyum and Anka LGAs of the state. Survivors of the attack had said the bandits killed over 200 villagers and set many houses ablaze, but the state said 58 persons died in the attacks. Speaking during the visit, Buhari, who was represented by Bashir Magashi, minister of defence, described the incident as “extremely unfortunate”. The president said the incident is a very sad one for the nation, and expressed the “strong determination” of his administration to improve security. “There will be no let-up in the ongoing campaign to rid Zamfara and other affected states of the menace of these terrorists. Since they have no regard for the sanctity of life, so shall they be dealt with,” he was quoted as saying according to a statement by Garba Shehu, presidential spokesperson. “The government is fully informed of what is going on and will do whatever it takes to end this. We are here to talk to the governor and to assure the state that the administration is determined to do more to defend the life and property of the people.” Buhari condoled with the government and the people of the state over the loss of lives and directed security agencies to intensify the ongoing campaign until everyone and everywhere is safe. According to the statement, Bello Matawalle, governor of Zamfara, said the visit was a testimony to the strong support of the government. “The Governor added that President Buhari is an example to the world in the establishment of democratic values and commended him for responding positively to all the requests so far placed before him by the state government,” the statement reads. Shehu said the delegation also conveyed the approval of the president for palliative items for the Anka and Bukkuyum emirates, and for other areas affected by attacks in the recent past. Aside from Magashi who led the delegation, others present were Maigari Dingyadi, minister of police affairs; Sadiya Umar Faruk, minister of humanitarian affairs, disaster management and social affairs; Babagana Munguno, national security adviser; and Usman Baba, inspector-general of police.