The Nigerian Human Rights Community (NHRC), a non-governmental organisation (NGO), says the direct primary mode is the best for picking candidates by political parties in the country. The group said this following the All Progressives Congress (APC) primary election held in Ekiti state. Biodun Oyebanji, former secretary to the state government (SSG), emerged as the party’s candidate amid controversy. In a statement on Saturday, Fred Ojinika, programme officer, and Odebunmi Ajayi, south-west coordinator of the group, said the APC Ekiti primary election was not without challenges but the poll proved that direct participation of members of political parties in choosing candidates remains the best option. “The primary was not without minor hitches but that it represented the wish and aspirations of the majority of members of APC in Ekiti state,” they said. “Nigerians [should] disregard reports being released by people who did not witness or monitor the primary – they are guided by stereotyping, wild assumptions and aspirants who saw the primary as a ‘must win’ venture. “We saw people’s enthusiasm, confidence and trust in democracy. Even in the face of prevailing challenges, people feel honoured and excited that they were involved in choosing who would represent their political party at the poll. “This feeling of excitement strengthens the prospect of greater inclusion and public participation in party internal democracy. “There is no perfect system anywhere. The Ekiti Primary demonstrated inclusion and expresses the potential and powers possessed by the electorates and their ability to make tremendous input into the process that produced the aspirant of the party they belong to. “It would have been worse if the primary had been by consensus or through indirect primary. “Given the controversy associated with the build up to the primary election, direct primary appears to be the only means that could assuage what appeared to be preconceived prejudices within the political space.”