A coalition of support groups of former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar has advised the former number two citizen not to run for the presidency in 2023 but support a south-eastern candidate. The coalition is made up of the Middle Belt Network for Atiku, North For North Support Group for Atiku, Turaki Arewa Vanguard for Atiku and South-West Development Frontiers. Abubakar has not officially declared his presidential bid but it is said that he is warming up to run for the highest office in the land — yet again. Addressing a press conference in Abuja on Thursday, Femi Osabinu, convener of the South-West Development Frontiers, said age is not on the side of the former vice-president. Osabinu said the country needs a young and energetic person who would be able to handle the rigours of office. “We make a clear and undiluted call on former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar to give second thoughts to his desire to contest for the office of president in the elections again in 2023,” he said. “While Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has served the nation with distinction, as evidenced in the fact that we have been his supporters for years, it is also undeniable that at 77 years of age going into this race, it will be a mismatch of national priorities to support his quest, taking into consideration the unique interplay of circumstances currently confronting our country. “Nigeria needs a young and more energetic unifier, who will be able to handle the rigours of being physically present in crisis spots to make the physical and psychological statement of the government being in charge and committed to finding lasting solutions to our national challenges. “The time is now, if we must save Nigeria, for a younger candidate to take the saddle and take back our country from a particular set of Nigerians who are in their late seventies and eighties “Our members, in their numbers across the country, are on standby in the various political parties and consulting from outside of the parties to ensure that the south eastern presidency is achieved in 2023.” The convener said their call is based on the “mood of the nation”.