President Muhammadu Buhari says north-east residents will soon experience a shift from insurgency to peace and stability. Buhari gave the assurance on Wednesday during the inauguration of the presidential committee on the repatriation, return and resettlement of internally displaced persons (IDPs) in the zone. The inauguration of the presidential committee preceded the weekly federal executive council (FEC) meeting. Since 2009, the north-east has experienced a spate of killings, kidnappings and destruction of properties by Boko Haram, and much recently, the Islamic State’s West Africa Province (ISWAP). In 2021, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), in its 2020 report, said 34,457 people were killed by insurgents in Borno, Adamawa and Yobe states between 2009 and early 2020. Speaking during the inauguration, the president said his administration is committed to a return to peace and normalcy in the region. ”At the advent of this administration in 2015, I pledged to Nigerians that I will restore peace in the north-east and return it to the path of development and growth. I remain committed to this promise,” he said. ”To the people of the north-east, particularly the children and future of the north-east, we will never forget you and your courage, sacrifice and endurance have been exemplary. ”I pledge to you that in the coming months you will begin to witness a shift away from a protracted insurgency to peace building, stabilization, and ultimately development in your respective communities as we embark on a revised approach to addressing this conflict — a return to normalcy.” Buhari said the committee is expected to develop a three-year action plan by March 2022 — to incorporate national and state-level plans towards the restoration of peace. “The committee, he said, will also develop and implement a phased plan for the repatriation, returns, resettlement of IDPs and restoration of livelihoods, incorporating global best practices that give dignity to the affected populations,” he said. “According to the president, they will also be responsible for the development and implementation of a coordinated peace building and reconciliation programme that is culturally appropriate and community driven. “The committee is also saddled with the responsibility of strengthening collaboration with key donors, development partners and private sector organisations that are critical to the mobilisation of resources and implementation of programmes.” This is not the first time the Buhari-led administration will promise to bring the war against insurgency to an end. In August 2015, the president said the “end of the Boko Haram insurgency is in sight”. The president, in October 2021, also assured Nigerians that his administration will do everything to end insurgency, banditry and kidnapping. Two months later, Buhari said Nigeria was in the final phase of the war against insurgency.