Nigeria on Monday recorded 53 cases of COVID-19. Here are five updates about the pandemic this Tuesday. New Zealand PM warns of more COVID-19 variants in 2022 Jacinda Ardern, New Zealand prime minister, says the COVID-19 pandemic will not end with the Omicron variant and the country has to prepare for more variants of the virus this year. Ardern made the comments in her first parliamentary address of the year on Tuesday. “Mr speaker, advice from experts is that Omicron will not be the last variant we will face this year,” Ardern said. “It’s not over, but that doesn’t mean we cannot move forward and keep making progress. And so we are.” WHO: COVID disrupts health services in over 90 percent of countries A survey conducted by the World Health Organisation (WHO) says basic health services such as vaccination programmes and treatment of diseases like AIDS were “severely” disrupted in 92 percent of 129 countries owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. The study carried out in November-December 2021, showed services were affected with “little or no improvement”. “The results of this survey highlight the importance of urgent action to address major health system challenges, recover services and mitigate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic,” WHO said in a statement. Nigeria records 53 COVID cases Nigeria’s daily COVID cases continued on a low record on Monday with 53 infections recorded. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) said the infections were logged in 10 states. Below is a summary of the infections: Gombe-16
Rivers-12
Cross River-8
Kaduna-4
Niger-4
Kwara-3
Bayelsa-2
Kano-2
Ogun-1
Oyo-1 The agency data showed that 100 persons were discharged after recovering from the infection. No fatality was recorded on Monday, leaving the total deaths at 3,139. In total, 253,780 cases have been confirmed with 230,144 recoveries. Ottawa declares state of emergency over COVID protests Jim Watson, the mayor of Ottawa, has declared a state of emergency in the Canadian capital following a week-long protest by truck drivers over COVID-19 restrictions. The “freedom truck convoy” started as a protest against a national vaccine requirement for truckers crossing the border from the United States, but it has now evolved into a staging ground against Canadian public health policies. Watson has promised to reclaim “the city” from protesters, saying the demonstrators are acting “insensitively” by “blaring horns and sirens, (setting off) fireworks, and turning it into a party”. “Clearly, we are outnumbered and we are losing this battle. This has to be reversed,” he said. EU donates over 1.9m doses of J & J COVID vaccine to Nigeria The federal government has received 1,936,050 doses of the Johnson & Johnson COVID vaccine from the European Union (EU). The doses were handed over to officials of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA) on Monday at the national strategic cold store in Abuja. 