Anietie Usen, veteran journalist, has been appointed the head of media for the Maintain Peace Movement (MPM), a pan-Akwa Ibom grassroots mobilisation group. The group announced the development on Tuesday in a statement signed by Enobong Uwah, its secretary-general. MPM was launched in 2021 by Udom Emmanuel, governor of Akwa Ibom. The group is involved in mobilisation efforts for Umo Eno, an Akwa Ibom governorship aspirant. Chris Abasieyo was also named campaign spokesperson of the group, while Anthony Akan was appointed as the deputy director, political support groups. “The national executive committee (NEC) of the Maintain Peace Movement (MPM) has approved the appointment of the following to the NEC of the Movement and the Pastor Umo Eno campaign organisation: Anietie Usen — head, national media; Chris Abasieyo — campaign spokesperson; Anthony Akan — deputy director of political support groups,” the statement reads. Usen is a multiple award-winning journalist and author who was a pioneer reporter at the Newswatch magazine, where he later became the general editor. He was also the senior political analyst and an editorial board member of THISDAY newspaper, as well as the regional editor-in-charge of West Africa for Africa today, a London-based pan-African magazine. The author of ‘Audacious Journalism’ was also the general manager of the Akwa Ibom newspaper corporation and the founding head of corporate communications in the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). Usen holds certificates from the Harvard Business School, Oxford Business School, Manchester Business School, Wisconsin School of Business, Lagos Business School, Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, and the University of Calabar. He is also a fellow of the Nigerian Institute of Management; fellow, Association of Corporate Governance Professionals of Nigeria; fellow of the Thompson Journalism Foundation, United Kingdom; member of the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations; member, Nigeria Guild of Editors; member, European Market Research Centre (MEMRC), and is currently a media and management consultant.