Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo has asked members of the reconstituted National Council on privatisation (NCP) to dedicate themselves to the socio-economic development and growth of the country. Ibeh Chidi, head, public communications, Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE), said this in a statement issued on Tuesday in Abuja. The statement added that Osinbajo as chairman of the NCP charged the members to embrace public-private partnerships while inaugurating the council at the presidential villa. “This inauguration marks another milestone in our administration’s drive towards economic rejuvenation and liberalisation as the pathway to unleashing the immense potentials of Nigeria’s economy,” Osinbajo said. “Your appointment as members of the council is a unique opportunity to utilise your well-acknowledged skills and experience to contribute to the socio-economic development of our country.” Osinbajo advised the council to approve the legal and regulatory framework for public enterprises, review occasionally, the socio-economic effects of privatisation and commercialisation and decide on appropriate remedies. “Some of the cardinal objectives of the economic agenda of this administration are to ensure accelerated growth of the economy and provide infrastructure,” Osinbajo said. “The objectives include creating jobs and providing a suitable environment for productive activities to flourish and tap our enormous natural wealth for the benefit of our people.” He further called for robust monitoring of privatised enterprises, embracing public-private partnerships for the provision of infrastructure and identification and optimisation of public assets. “We are required to take appropriate steps to ensure that the interests of the various segments of our society, particularly the ordinary citizens, are protected in the implementation of the reform programme,” Osinbajo added. The vice-president, however, charged the members to diligently carry out the statutory responsibilities assigned to the council as it a determinant to formulate strategic plans and approve policies on privatisation, commercialisation and reforms of the various sectors of the economy. The statutory members of the reconstituted NCP include Zainab Ahmed, Vice Chairman and minister of finance, budget and national planning, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo, minister of trade, industry and investment. The membership also includes Abubakar Malami, minister of justice and attorney-general of the federation, Boss Mustapha, secretary to the government of the federation, Godwin Emefiele, governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria. Others are Adeyemi Dipeolu, special adviser to the president on economic matters and Muhammad Ahmad, Nasidi Ali, Remi Morgan and Marius Adimmadu, representing the private sector and Alex Okoh, director general, BPE, serving as member/secretary.