A girls’ school built within the premises where the home of Ahmad Gumi, popular Islamic cleric, is located in Kaduna, has been gutted by fire. No life was lost in the inferno, which occurred on Saturday and reportedly lasted for about four hours. Although Gumi’s residence within the premises was not affected by the fire, the girls’ secondary school established by the cleric and located upstairs within the compound was said to have been razed. A laboratory, the computer section and four classrooms were reportedly destroyed. Tukur Mamu, media consultant to Gumi, confirmed the incident in a statement issued on Saturday evening. “This is to confirm a fire outbreak in Sheikh Dr. Ahmad Gumi’s residence. While the cause of the fire which lasted for about four hours has not yet been ascertained, we can confirm that no life was lost,” the statement reads. “Contrary to media reports, the fire did not affect the second part of the large building where the Sheikh and his family resides. “For clarity, part of the big edifice, an upstairs in the main entrance, [houses] a female secondary school, Khulitul Banat Girls College, which was founded by Gumi, while the Sheikh stays with his family in large duplexes at the inner part of the house. “The side that was completely destroyed by the fire is the upstairs of the Girls College. The well-equipped laboratory, computer sections (with about 50 computers) and 4 classrooms all in the upstairs of the building were all destroyed by the fire. “The source of the fire is not yet known.” The statement also commended the fire service for responding to distress calls. “Nothing was removed. The downstairs of the school with many classrooms and offices were not torched by the fire,” Mamu added. “Sheikh Gumi and his entire family, including his domestic staff, were not affected and did not sustain any injury as a result of the unfortunate disaster. “As we investigate to find out the cause of the fire, we thank all well wishers that came almost immediately in hundreds to provide assistance in putting out the fire and to sympathise with Sheikh Gumi. “We also thank many others from outside Kaduna that keep calling in demonstration of love and concern. “Even as we share the concern of many well wishers that this happened to the only school dedicated purely for girls and with emphasis on inculcating decency and supporting the girl child, we give gratitude to Allah and believe that no matter the cause(s), it was designed by Allah to happen.”