Nyesom Wike, governor of Rivers, has tackled his Cross River counterpart, Ben Ayade, over an alleged attempt to stop the campaign rally organised by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the latter’s state. On Saturday, the Cross River PDP held its campaign rally for the Ogoja/Yala federal constituency and Akpabuyo state constituency bye-elections at the Calabar Sports Club. The bye-elections have been scheduled for February 26 by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Some hours before the PDP campaign rally, some party members alleged that police officers acting on the directive of Ayade barricaded the entrance of the sports club in an attempt to stop the rally. Speaking at the rally, Wike said the PDP in Cross River would have gone into extinction if the planned rally did not hold while applauding party members for standing against the attempt to stop the rally. The River governor said he does not understand why a governor will attempt to stop a campaign rally meant for “ordinary” federal and state constituencies. Wike assured PDP members that the party at the national level would provide support for the state chapter more than what the Cross River government can do. “When I was told that they don’t want you to hold this rally, I said this rally must hold today, and I must come. Whatever will happen, let it happen today,” Wike said. “I told your leader that if you do not hold this rally today, that would have been the end of PDP. I thank God, all of you resisted it, and you said enough is enough. “I have come here today to let you know I’m going to give you every support. Don’t be afraid. They tried it in Rivers state, we resisted them. They are trying to instigate fear in you. Don’t be afraid at all. Whatever the Cross River government can do, PDP can do it better. “I don’t understand how a governor would for ordinary federal constituency election, ordinary state election stop them from holding a rally. When it comes to the governorship, what will happen? “I thought as a governor with a very high budget, I thought the only way to test whether you have done well for your people — is to allow them to hold the rally and see whether people will go. “When people don’t go, you will now know that truly my people are with me.” In May 2021, Ayade defected from the PDP to the All Progressives Congress (PDP).