The house of representatives says body cameras should be provided for all security operatives including the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) as part of the effort to tackle corrupt practices. The lower legislative chamber also directed security agencies to establish situation rooms to monitor and coordinate footage. The green chamber passed the resolution during the plenary session on Thursday following the adoption of a motion sponsored by Chinedu Emeka, a lawmaker from Imo state. Emeka said the cameras will prevent security operatives from engaging in unprofessional practices. “Security agencies have been exploring solutions to mitigate the growing insecurity in the country, especially considering the lack of adherence to rules of engagement on the part of security operatives on duty,” he said. “A body camera is a wearable audio-visual or photographic system which integrates with in-car video, and used to record events involving law enforcement officers in order to improve transparency and accountability of law enforcement agencies.” The legislator said allegations of harassment, extortion and extra-judicial killings of citizens by security operatives “often result in reprisals and uprising by the citizens,” hence the need for such claims to be recorded. “Security operatives, who often experience litigious scrutiny over their conduct in the discharge of their duties, ought to wear body cameras in order to have picture and video evidence of their activities,” he said. “The body cameras will keep the security operatives in check, considering the massive allegations of human rights violation by security operatives and lack of evidence to indict them. “The introduction of body cameras will not only douse tension and promote trust and professionalism among the security agencies but will institutionalise the rules of engagement to foster a harmonious relationship between security operatives and the citizenry.” The motion was adopted when it was put to a voice vote by Idris Wase, deputy speaker of the house. Subsequently, the house mandated the committees on police affairs, army and national security and intelligence to ensure compliance. In 2021, the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) launched the use of body cameras for its personnel across the country.