The house of representatives has asked Faruk Yahaya, chief of army staff (COAS), and Usman Baba, inspector-general of police (IGP), to investigate the invasion of five communities in Imo by gunmen alleged to be security operatives. The resolution was passed during plenary session on Tuesday following the adoption of a motion of urgent public importance. The motion was sponsored by Emeka Chinedu, a legislator representing Ahiazu Mbaise/Ezinihitte federal constituency of Imo state. TheCable had reported how houses in the community were said to have been set ablaze by armed persons on Saturday. The armed men were said to have arrived at the communities in seven cars to search for one Uche Madu, who is alleged to be a member of the Eastern Security Network, a unit of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB). But after a fruitless search, the armed men reportedly set fire to several houses. Speaking on the floor of the house on Tuesday, Chinedu said the communities — Ihitteafoukwu, Umu Okirika, Oparanadim, Mpam, and Ogbor Umeze —  had been “peaceful and quiet” before the invasion. He said Nigerians are “increasingly losing hope and confidence” in the nation’s law enforcement operatives “due to high-handedness, unethical conduct and total disregard for rule of law and engagement”. According to the legislator, the timely intervention of community leaders, who persuaded residents from defending their properties, “averted bloodshed” in the area. “Such gestapo invasion, siege and wanton destruction of lives and properties after sporadic shootings are expanding in scope and frequency in the country especially in Imo state, south-east of Nigeria,” he said. “The danger inherent in the one-sided narrative as often packaged by law enforcement agents in such circumstances without thorough investigation is not only unhealthy for democracy, but also an intolerable affront to fundamental human rights, especially where law enforcement agents can recklessly invade, attack, destroy and maim before coming up with some frame-up to rationalise extra-judicial activities. “Further delay in investigating matters of this nature may not only send complicating signals but also be counterproductive in the long run, especially as law enforcement agents, just like their counterparts around the world, do not have the inalienable right to act lawlessly, waste lives or plunder properties of the people they are paid to protect.” The motion was adopted after Idris Wase, the deputy speaker, put it to a voice vote. The lawmakers subsequently asked the chief of army staff and IGP to investigate the incident and “identify the perpetrators, the reason for the invasion, number of lives and properties destroyed”. They also demanded a probe into “why communities that are not at war must be razed without recourse to the excruciating effect of rendering the innocent homeless as well as depriving the living their breadwinners”. Following that, the lawmakers mandated the house committees on police affairs and the army to ensure compliance.