The house of representatives has resolved to investigate the Nigeria Correctional Service (NCS) over the “deplorable state of inmates and unwholesome working conditions” of its officers. The lawmakers passed the resolution during plenary session on Wednesday following the adoption of a motion of urgent public importance titled: ‘Urgent need to investigate the deplorable state of inmates and the unwholesome working conditions of officers and men of the Nigeria Correctional Service despite huge budgetary allocations with attendant adverse effects on security of custodial facilities and the new mandate of the service’. The motion was sponsored by Ndudi Elumelu, minority leader of the house. Elumelu said despite the increase in the budgetary allocations to the NCS, the quality of the service has not improved. The Delta state legislator said officers of the service still parade substandard weapons which do not help in effective response to internal and external threats. “The staff still buy or make their uniforms to date, regardless of the huge budget allocations provided for this purpose. Provision of uniform for inmates is non-existent in most custodial centres,” he said. “Upon the enactment of the NSC Act 2019, Nigeria joined most countries of the world in adopting modern correctional alternatives to incarceration or imprisonment including non-custodial measures. “The extant Act situates the workforce of the service as the single most important resource available to the correctional system and thus prioritised the welfare of these officers and men in line with international best practices to propel them to optimal performance. “Despite this Act and increase in budgetary allocations to the NCS to drive its renewed mandate, the tempo and quality of the service have remained the same, if not retrogressing. “The working conditions of staff and inmates’ welfare have deteriorated notwithstanding the over N165 billion budget allocations to the service in the last two years. “The arms squad unit of the service still parades obsolete and substandard weapons despite over N1 billion budget provision for prison biometrics, arms and ammunition in the 2020/2021 capital budget, thus, impeding its ability to deter, prevent or respond effectively to both internal and external threats. “The house is aware of deaths of correctional officers and men across the country following attacks either on escort vehicles or custodial facilities; “In addition to allegations of non-utilisation of budget allocations in the manner prescribed by the national assembly and administrative incompetence of drivers of change in the rebranded service, there are also claims of unscrupulous staff promotion, denial of rights and benefits, including hazard and duty tour allowances levelled against the management of the service.” The legislator said the security of custodial facilities may deteriorate if the current “compromising” situation is allowed to fester. The motion was unanimously adopted when it was put to a voice vote by Femi Gbajabiamila, speaker of the house, after which the committee on reformatory institutions was given 12 weeks to carry out the investigation.