Enyimba FC recorded the only away win in matchday 11 of the 2021/22 Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) as fan violence marred Enugu Rangers’ away draw in Bauchi. Here is a roundup of games across various stadiums. Wikki Tourists 0-0 Enugu Rangers A mob of unruly football fans at the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa Stadium in Bauchi attacked the referee over alleged bias after Wikki played out a goalless draw against Enugu Rangers at home. According to NAN, the furious fans threw stones at the referee and pelted him and other officials with water sachets until he was rescued by security operatives in the stadium. The away draw was vital for the Flying Antelopes, who sit sixth on the log. Sunshine Stars 0-1 Enyimba FC Enyimba earned their second away win of the season after holding their own against an impressive Sunshine side that had lost just once in the previous eight games. The lone goal came in the 47th minute after a clearance from Mustapha Lawal, Sunshine Stars goalkeeper, came off Victor Mbaoma and flew into an empty net. It was comical but hurtful for the confident home side, and they were unable to find an equaliser throughout the game. The Peoples Elephants are now fourth on the table, breathing down the necks of the league leaders. Remo Stars 1-0 Shooting Stars The south-west derby ended in favour of Remo Stars as they continued their fantastic run of form with a narrow 1-0 win over visiting Shooting Stars. A 63rd-minute free-kick from Nduka Junior handed Remo all three points and sent them top of the league. Abia Warriors 1-1 Nasarawa United In one of the two games played on Saturday, points were shared between Abia Warriors and Nasarawa United. A Godwin Obaje early goal was cancelled out by Shammasu Mohammed’s equaliser in the 62nd minute. Dakkada United 1-o Kano Pillars In the other game played on Saturday, Dakkada got the better of Kano Pillars in Uyo. Musa Bashiru’s brilliant second-half goal was the only difference between the teams. Kwara United 1-0 Lobi Stars Samad Kadiri’s second goal in two games helped Kwara United to a well-fought victory over Lobi Stars in Ilorin. Plateau United 1-0 River United Akila Jidima was the hero for Plateau United as they pipped Rivers United by a lone goal to sit third on the log. MFM 0-0 Akwa United MFM’s woes continued as they suffered a home draw with Akwa United at the Teslim Balogun Stadium. The Lagos-based team sits 19th on the log, the same point as Heartland at the bottom. On Wednesday, Heartland FC will host Gombe United in Owerri.