Mohammed Bello-Koko, the new managing director of the Nigeria Ports Authority (NPA), says he will work to ease gridlock at Nigeria’s ports and fully automate the ports system. President Muhammadu Buhari approved the appointment of Mohammed Bello-Koko as the substantive head on Tuesday. Bello-Koko said this in a series of tweets on Thursday, while thanking President Muhammadu Buhari for his appointment. “We will, however, not relent on our core mandate — trade facilitation; easing gridlock in the ports corridors, and encouraging the full utilization of the Eastern Ports,” he said. “Our vision is to have a fully automated port system that will fit into the global port standards.” He said the new leadership would pursue rehabilitation of decaying ports infrastructure, improve marine services, cut expenditures, and improve revenue. Acknowledging the enormity of the task ahead, Bello-Koko promised to carry duties with utmost diligence and put the national interest ahead and above anything else. “With my experience as the executive director F&A and later acting managing director, I will continue to work with all stakeholders to create an institution that is responsive to the expectations of the government, maritime industry, and the general public,” he added. “As we move to complete the Lekki Port, we are open to investments to develop other strategic deep seaports in the country.” Bello-Koko was first appointed acting MD of the agency in May 2021 after Hadiza Bala Usman was suspended over the allegation of missing N165 billion. Usman’s suspension followed a recommendation by Rotimi Amaechi, minister of transportation, to set up an administrative panel of inquiry to investigate the management of the NPA. The panel later cleared Usman of any wrongdoing. The NPA MD added that Amaechi played a key role in his emergence as head of the agency. “A special appreciation to the honourable minister of transportation, Hon. Chibuike Amaechi, whose recommendation played a significant role in my confirmation,” he said.