Richard Somiari, director of the Lagos DNA and forensic centre, says one more body recovered from the rubble of the high-rise that collapsed in Ikoyi has been identified. More than 40 persons — including Femi Osibona, owner of Fourscore Homes, the developing company in charge of the building — died when the structure collapsed in November 2021. As of Thursday, five victims were said to have been unidentified. Speaking on Friday before an Ikeja coroner’s court when he was led in evidence by Akin George, counsel to the state government, Somiari said he got news of the identification of the victim on his way to the inquest. According to NAN, he also explained why the identification of the victims was yet to be completed. “We received 57 unique samples. In disasters, there could be dismemberment and we may not have 57 bodies,” he told the court. “We got a total of 102 reference samples from all families that presented and still counting because we might still need some more samples. “Using those reference samples, we were previously able to identify 45 bodies. “There are three bodies that have generated DNA profiles, but no reference profiles have matched those profiles. “In such a situation, we will invite additional family members or use of personal belongings like toothbrush to establish identity. “The claimed biological reference is not what science is showing. We will use other methods like personal effects from any missing person suspected to be in the building collapse. “This is the challenge we are facing. In most disasters, you cannot use DNA all the time to complete identification.” The forensic scientist, however, said additional biological material would be used for identification, adding that there were slim chances of a DNA mismatch for deceased persons. Under cross-examination by Amanda Demechi-Asagba, counsel to the African Women Lawyers Association, Somiari spoke on challenges faced in identifying the bodies. “Some families may be unaware that their loved ones are missing. That is why in disasters, all bodies are not always identified. There might be alternate methods which could be explored,” he said. “That is the limitation of DNA as a reference, because you will always need a reference.” Oyetade Komolafe, the coroner, thereafter, adjourned proceedings until February 25 for continuation of hearing.