Air Peace says it will resume direct scheduled flights to Dubai, United Arab Emirates (UAE), on March 1. This is coming after Nigeria and UAE ended diplomatic rows. The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority had said Air Peace and Emirates Airlines are liberty to resume scheduled passenger flights between Nigeria and UAE under the terms and conditions of the Bilateral Air Services Agreement (BASA) between the two countries. On Wednesday, Emirates Airline announced that it will resume passenger flight operations between Dubai and Nigeria on Saturday, February 5, 2022. Stanley Olisa, the airline’s spokesperson, announced the commencement of Dubai flight operations in a statement on Friday. Olisa said that the airline would also launch flight operations into Niamey, Niger, on February 25 and in Kinshasha and Malabo in the first quarter of the year. He said that the Lagos-Dubai-Lagos flights would operate three days weekly from any of its domestic routes through its Lagos hub. “We are happy to inform the flying public that in tandem with our commitment to provide more flight connectivity and meeting the air travel needs of Nigerians, we are restarting our UAE operations, but with Dubai as the destination, and not Sharjah,” NAN quoted Olisa as saying. “We abundantly appreciate the vital role played by the Nigerian government in making this possible.” Olisa said that before the first quarter runs out, the airline would begin scheduled flights to Kinshasha, DR Congo and Malabo, Equatorial Guinea. He said the move aims to enlarge its footprints in West Africa and offer the flying public more network options. He said that Niamey flights would operate from Abuja and Kano on Tuesdays, Fridays and Sundays with the Hopper jets. He noted that the airline had been operating scheduled commercial flights into the UAE since July 2019 and would continue to augment its service delivery to outdo the expectations of air travellers. The spokesperson said that this was especially with the activation of its ambitious fleet modernisation scheme and a renewed commitment to unequalled customer experience. He added that Air Peace had also been designated by the federal government to fly into other international destinations such as Guangzhou-China, Delhi-India, U.K and Houston-US.