William Troost-Ekong, Super Eagles center-back, has been named as the captain of ‘Team Thrive Africa‘. ‘Team Thrive Africa’ is a social action platform that fights against neglected tropical diseases (NTDs). The 28-year-old Super Eagles vice-captain also said he is partnering with the END Fund, a private philanthropic initiative, to lead its Thrive Africa team in taking action to eliminate NTDs in Africa. “I am incredibly proud of my African heritage. It is always a huge honour to represent Nigeria on the football pitch, and now I want to represent Africa off the pitch,” Troost-Ekong said. “I have met many people in Nigeria and across the continent who are living with an NTD. They have to work extra hard to overcome the physical, social and economic consequences of their ailments in order to survive. “But it shouldn’t be about survival. If we can work together to eliminate NTDs we can create greater access to education and work opportunities for over 600 million people, boosting Africa’s economy and building a great future for our continent.” NTDs are a group of parasitic and bacterial infectious diseases that affect more than 1.5 billion of the world’s most impoverished people, including 869 million children. More than 600 million people in Africa are affected by NTDs which cause long-term disabilities like severe pain, disfigurement, and blindness and can lead to death if left untreated. In addition to health challenges, NTDs can lead to social isolation and stigmatization that affect both children and adults by reducing the number of years of education completed, future earning potential, and overall economic productivity. The mission of Thrive Africa is to build a team of social activists who can work together to address these issues, empowering the continent to thrive, not just survive. “More than 1 in 5 people worldwide are affected by NTDs and yet these diseases remain largely unknown and under-prioritized,” said Sam Mayer, END Fund vice president of public affairs said. “Thrive Africa will offer an engaging space for a growing coalition of leaders across the continent to join us in our efforts to ensure more healthy and prosperous lives for those affected by NTDs. These diseases cost far more to ignore than they do to treat, and Thrive Africa will help more people realize this.” Click on here to become Troost-Ekong’s team member.