Rauf Aregbesola, minister of interior, has described the Osun governorship primary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as a “sham of an election”. The former Osun governor asked his supporters not to be downcast or resort to violence over the outcome of the exercise. Citing several alleged irregularities during the primary, Aregbesola praised his supporters for comporting themselves as “Omoluabi in the true essence”. The APC in Osun has two factions: one is loyal to Aregbesola while the other pledges allegiance to Gboyega Oyetola, the incumbent governor of the state. During the primary election, several members of the Aregbesola faction had complained that their names were not found in the party register, hence they could not partake in the process. In a statement issued by Sola Fasure, his media aide, the minister said: “We have received and continue to receive the reports of the shenanigans of the officials who conducted the sham of an election. “We have been inundated with reports state-wide of how your names were expunged from the party’s voters register, which was not made available until this morning, contrary to the convention of making the list available to the candidates before the election. “We have heard of how party registration cards were being hawked this morning to the supporters of the state governor. We have also received reports of how accreditation was not done at all in many wards and how people without the party identification just participated and queued behind the governor in many polling units. “We have received the report from our members and independent observers, how government officials and notable supporters of the governor officiated in the election, how votes were farcically counted in favour of the governor and how the votes recorded for him were more than the number of voters accredited ab initio in many units. “We have heard of the absence of result sheets and other vital documents for recording results and vital data. We note also the absence of INEC officials in most wards, casting serious doubt on the credibility of the election. “We note with shame and much regret the consternation of local and international observers on what they regard as a travesty of an election. “I will urge you to maintain your cool and calm. Be not downcast, be not agitated. Hold your head high. We are still receiving and studying all these reports and will take a definitive position on them.” Aregbesola asked his supporters not to take laws into their hands, saying his camp will “explore all peaceful and legal means for addressing the matter in order to obtain justice”.