Babagana Zulum, governor of Borno, says the federal and state governments are working towards ending insurgency by 2023. Zulum spoke with state house correspondents on Thursday after he met with President Muhammadu Buhari at the presidential villa in Abuja. The governor said his visit was to apprise the president of the progress in the fight against insurgency and the rehabilitation of internally displaced persons (IDPs) in the state. He said over 30,000 insurgents have laid down their weapons and are in the custody of the authorities, adding that given the mass surrender and other security operations, efforts are on to ensure insurgency ends in 2023 “God willing”. “As I’ve been saying before, the kinetic measures alone will never end the insurgency. The social and political dimension of this crisis is very important. So, we have decided to engage them through dialogue and mediation, with a view to ensuring that many of them should lay down their arms,” he said. “So far, so good, the objective has started yielding positive result. Apart from this also, in Borno state, for example, as I told you last time, we had problems in the shores of the Lake Chad as well as in southern Borno. I’m pleased to inform you that there was a very heavy military deployment into the southern Borno. And I hope such a deployment will also take place in northern Borno with a view to clearing ISWAP insurgents in Lake Chad. So, this has also yielded positive results. “Things are getting better in Borno state and this is the major reason I came to see Mr President. There are some issues that should not be discussed in the public. These issues are security issues. “The most important thing is that the federal government under the leadership of President Buhari with the Borno state government and the military, we’re all working in close collaboration to ensure that those that are willing to surrender are given the opportunity to surrender. “The way we are going, with the support of the federal government, with good management, Boko Haram will be over very soon.” When asked if he believes insurgency will end in 2023, he said: “Insha Allah. You know what I mean by Insha Allah — God willing”. The governor added that his administration does not offer any incentive to the insurgents to surrender, adding that they do so voluntarily. “We don’t have any promissory notes to defectors, honestly speaking. But you have to also understand one very important thing. There is a difference between those that have been captured and those that have surrendered. People should understand these two unidentical situations,” he said. “Go back and Google and see the international conventions, rules and regulation. There is a difference between those that have been captured and those that willingly surrendered. And I’m calling upon all of you to give a very positive insight to this development. “There’s nowhere in the whole world such kind of war ended with kinetic measures. There must be certain political solutions and I believe if there is peace in the north-east and Borno, there will be peace in northern Nigeria. If there is peace in northern Nigeria, there will be peace in southern Nigeria.” Last Thursday, the governor had said the major reason the state is succeeding in tackling insecurity is that the president never denied him access.