Fixit45, an autotech platform, says it has partnered with Bolt, a ride-hailing company, to provide drivers with access to maintenance services. In a statement issued on Tuesday, Fixit45 said the service would be subscription-based for drivers on the Bolt platform. The company said the aim would minimise potential mobility disruption. “This subscription-based service plan for drivers on the Bolt platform guarantees unfettered access to quality auto services that include autocare, vehicle repair and maintenance from Fixit45’s service network across the country,” the statement reads. “Other benefits include access to repair financing, discounts on spare parts, unlimited diagnosis, periodic car wash and tire services.” Justus Obaoye, chief executive officer and co-founder, Fixit45, said the partnership will enhance the power of mobility as a critical success factor in stimulating advancement and development for both urban and rural economies. “As a platform that enhances mobility experiences, Fixit45 has collaboration in its DNA. As such, we are excited to partner with a market leader in the ride-hailing space in oiling the wheels of progress,” he said. “This service plan ensures that drivers’ inactivity often occasioned by vehicle operational downtime is minimised while increased earnings, improved vehicle reliability, and quick service turnaround time are some of the perks that come with this partnership. This partnership with Bolt is poised to keep the lights of the Nigerian economy on.” In his remarks, Femi Akin-Laguda, country manager at Bolt, said the collaboration would improve the access of the company’s partners to cost-effective autocare, repair financing and others. “We do not select our partners or partnerships frivolously; Working with Fixit45 on this project will help our drivers keep their cars in great conditions and save them a lot of time and money in maintaining their vehicles leading to better experiences for all our customers, be they drivers or passengers,” he added.