Femi Bamisile, governorship aspirant in Ekiti, says the All Progressives Congress (APC), his party, will be taught a lesson over how it conducted the state’s primary election. Bamisile and Opeyemi Bamidele, a serving senator, were among the seven aspirants that pulled out of the exercise last week. They alleged that the primary election committee was made up of loyalists of Kayode Fayemi, Ekiti governor, who wanted Biodun Oyebanji, a former secretary to the state government (SSG), to win. Oyebanji was eventually declared winner of the poll. The aspirants have filed a petition with the party and have vowed to go to court if the APC does not address their grievances. Speaking with journalists in Ekiti on Wednesday, Bamisile said he was not threatening the party but “a prophecy that will come to pass” if it does not do the right thing. The member of the house of representatives said he does not have any plan to defect from the party over his grievance. “This is our state, we are fighting for what we believe in,” the lawmaker said. “This is a democracy where everyone has the right to support whoever he likes. The police shouldn’t threaten us with arrest. Nobody can stop this, the only thing they can do to stop us is to allow justice in our party. “Whatever votes they have allotted to us will reflect on the day of election. We won’t leave this party, but not leaving does not mean that APC will not be taught a lesson. “This is not a threat, but a prophecy that will come to pass. We are not going anywhere, but if the party doesn’t do it right, they will be taught a lesson they will never forget.” Also speaking, Bamidele said the name of Oyebanji that has been sent to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as the party’s candidate for Ekiti is a “dummy” “As far as we are concerned, the name that has been taken to INEC in Abuja is a dummy name. I can be quoted that the name that has been submitted to INEC is a dummy name,” the senator said. “Those who are celebrating that Mr Biodun Oyebanji has won the election should celebrate with moderation because it is a dummy name.”