The Abia government has ordered the immediate closure of the Ahia Udele cattle market, following a fatal truck accident in the area. On Thursday, a truck reportedly lost control and crashed into an abattoir, with an unconfirmed number of persons said to have died in the accident. Confirming the development to TheCable, Geoffrey Ogbonna, Abia police spokesman, said he hadn’t gotten full details of the exact casualty figure. “I have not gotten full details of the accident because I have been occupied by loads of work. Such an accident happened and lives were lost but I don’t know the number of lives that were lost,” he said. In a statement, John Kalu, commissioner for trade and investment, said business owners and traders occupying the market have been asked to relocate. “Following the sad and shocking incident of a loaded trailer losing control and falling into the abattoir located at Waterside river area of Ogbor Hill, Aba, Abia State, the governor, Okezie Ikpeazu, has directed the immediate closure of the abattoir/cattle market and the proximal Ahia Udele market,” the statement reads. “All those currently doing business in the above markets/abattoir should immediately relocate to the following locations: New Omuma Uzor Abattoir in Ukwa West and Good morning Market, Aba, for those currently in Ahia Udele. “The governor also directed the ministry of homeland security to work with relevant security agencies in ensuring compliance. “While we mourn with those who lost loved ones in the unfortunate incident which occurred earlier today, it is important to state that the ministry of trade and investment had long commenced processes to relocate the markets in line with public health advice received from the ministry of environment and other relevant agencies. “This gave rise to the acceleration of processes for the completion of the new abattoir which should be ready later this month. “The ministry wishes to appeal to those concerned to ensure full compliance with the directive to relocate without delay while we assure them that the ministry will do everything possible to ensure that they are properly settled to continue doing their businesses within a safer and healthier environment.”