Gombe United ended Remo Stars unbeaten run with a 1-0 victory in their Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) encounter on Sunday. Here is a roundup of matchday twelve games across various stadiums. Akwa United 0-0 Heartland The reigning champions failed to beat Heartland at the Godswill Akpabio Stadium in Uyo. Femi Thomas, Heartland goalkeeper, was the hero of the match as he stopped two penalty kicks awarded to Akwa United to ensure that it ended goalless. Nasarawa United 1-1 Sunshine Stars Points were also shared between Nasarawa United and Sunshine Stars at the Lafia stadium. A Leonard Ugochukwu early strike was cancelled out by Lawal Shehu in the 40th minute of play. Gombe 1-0 Remo Stars Gombe United ended Remo Stars unbeaten run with a 1-0 win over the visitors. Ibrahim Yaya’s 15th minute strike was all the Savannah Scorpions needed to secure the three points. Shooting Stars 1-0 Dakkada Sunday Faleye netted for the Oluyole Warriors to secure all points against Dakkada at the Adamasingba stadium, Ibadan. Lobi Stars 2-1 MFM Lobi Stars defeated MFM 2-1 in Makurdi to earn their fourth win of the season and compound the Olukoya boys’ woes as they dropped to the bottom of the log with 7 points. Rangers 2-1 Abia Warriors Rangers defeated Abia Warriors 2-1 to take all three points at stake. Christian Nnaji got the Flying Antelopes ahead from the spot before Valentine Odoh leveled up for the visitors in the 66th minute. Chidiebere Nwobodo, however, netted for the home side to ensure that Rangers edge out the Imama Amapakabo boys. Kano Pillars 0-1 Plateau United Sunday Anthony’s 85th minute goal for Plateau United handed Kano Pillars their sixth loss of the season. With the win, the Jos-based side are now second on the log while Mai Su gida are 14th on the NPFL table. Katsina 1-0 Kwara United In one of the three matches played on Saturday, Katsina United got the better of Kwara. Nafiu Ibrahim’s 65th minute goal was the difference between the Changi boys and Kwara at the Muhammadu Dikko Stadium. Enyimba 1-1 Niger Tornadoes The second game on Saturday, saw Enyimba and Niger Tornadoes shared the spoils at Aba Stadium. Rivers 3-0 Wikki Tourists Ebube Duru’s brace and Chijioke Akuneto goal were all the Stanley Eguma’s boys needed to claim an emphatic win over visiting Wikki Tourists in Port Harcourt.