Barcelona have officially confirmed the signing of Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang on a free transfer. The deal was announced in a statement on the club’s website on Wednesday. The Spanish club confirmed that the former Arsenal captain signed a contract until June 2025, with a buyout clause set at €100 million. “FC Barcelona and Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang have reached an agreement for the player to join the Club after the striker terminated his contract with Arsenal FC,” the statement read. “The play will sign a contract until 30 June 2025 with an option to agree departure on 30 June 2023, and his buy out clause will be set at 100 million euros. “Shortly the Club will provide details of Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang’s presentation as a first-team player.” NEW SIGNING!  @Auba is blaugrana! — FC Barcelona (@FCBarcelona) February 2, 2022  Aubameyang signed for the Catalan club just a few hours after mutually terminating his contract with Arsenal. A statement by the English club on Tuesday confirmed Aubameyang’s exit. “We wish Auba all the best for the next chapter in his career and thank him for his contribution to the club,” the statement read. For the match-winning moments  For the iconic celebrations  For making us smile Thank you for everything, @Auba — Arsenal (@Arsenal) February 1, 2022  In a goodbye message to Arsenal fans, the Gabonese said it “hurts” to leave the Gunners “without a real goodbye.” “To the Arsenal fans, thank you for making London home for myself and my family for the past four years,” it read. “We went through ups and downs together, and your support meant everything to me. “Having the chance to win trophies and the honour of being the captain of this club is something I will forever keep in my heart. “I have always been 100 per cent focused and committed to doing everything I can for this club which is why leaving without a real goodbye hurts – but that is football.” Ready to go!  pic.twitter.com/kaEMkUnlNI — FC Barcelona (@FCBarcelona) February 2, 2022  The 32-year-old leaves Arsenal after four years at the club, having joined from Borussia Dortmund in January 2018 for a then club-record £60m fee. During his time with the Gunners, the Gabon international scored 92 goals in 163 games and won the FA Cup in 2020.