The United Kingdom and the United States of America have called on their citizens currently in Ukraine to leave the country immediately. There have been tensions between Ukraine and Russia with concerns over threats of invasion. The crisis stems from the protracted Russia-Ukrainian war that began in early 2014. Russia had annexed Ukraine’s Crimean Peninsula and allegedly threw its weight behind a separatist rebellion after then-President Viktor Yanukovych was ousted. In a previous statement, the UK foreign, commonwealth, and development office had advised its citizens against “all but essential travel” to Ukraine. But in a statement on Friday, the UK government said it is now advising its citizens against all travel to the country. “The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office today (Friday 11 February) updated its travel advice to Ukraine, and is now advising British nationals against all travel to Ukraine,” the statement reads. “British nationals currently in Ukraine should leave now while commercial means are still available.” According to the statement, a spokesperson of the office said its travel advice was updated because the safety and security of British nationals is top priority. The UK government also said British nationals who choose to remain in Ukraine should keep their departure plans under constant review, and ensure their travel documents are up to date. Meanwhile, Jake Sullivan, US national security adviser, has also urged Americans to leave the country. He said although the US does not have definitive information that an invasion has been ordered by President Vladimir Putin of Russia, all the pieces were in place for a major military operation that could start “rapidly”. “The risk is high enough and the threat is now immediate enough that prudence demands that it is the time to leave now,” Sullivan said. The US had previously disclosed that Russia could invade Ukraine “any time now”. In an interview, Sullivan had said “there is a very distinct possibility that Vladimir Putin will order an attack on Ukraine”. “It could take a number of different forms. It could happen as soon as tomorrow or it could take some weeks yet,” he added. On its part, the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM) has advised Nigerians in Ukraine to be security conscious.