Nigeria on Wednesday recorded 37 COVID infections. Here are five updates about the pandemic this Thursday. WHO seeks $23bn to end COVID pandemic The World Health Organisation (WHO) has asked rich countries to take action and end the COVID-19 pandemic as a global health emergency. The WHO said wealthy nations should assist low and middle-income countries to procure tests kits, treatments and vaccines. The agency launched the appeal on Wednesday, requesting 55 wealthy countries to contribute $23 billion in funding. “Supporting the rollout of tools to fight COVID-19 globally will help to curb virus transmission, break the cycle of variants, relieve overburdened health workers and systems, and save lives,” the WHO said in a statement. “With every month of delay, the global economy stands to lose almost four times the investment the ACT-Accelerator needs.” Indonesia starts testing homegrown COVID vaccine on humans Indonesia has started testing its homegrown COVID-19 vaccine on humans after getting approval from the drug regulator. The research on Merah Putih began in 2020 but suffered several delays. The authorities now hope it will be ready by mid-2022. Budi Sadikin, health minister, said the vaccine could be donated to other countries in need if trials are successful. “I have discussed this matter with the president and he has agreed to use this vaccine as a donation to countries in need,” Sadikin said. Nigeria logs 37 COVID infections The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) logged 37 infections across the country on Wednesday. The new cases were recorded in five states and the federal capital territory (FCT). A breakdown of the infections is presented below: Lagos-16
FCT-11
Katsina-4
Kano-3
Rivers-2
Kaduna-1 The agency data showed 10 persons were discharged on Wednesday after recovering from the infection. No death was recorded on Wednesday for the fourth consecutive day, leaving the fatality figure at 3,139. The country now has a total of 253,875 confirmed cases and 230,221 recoveries. Sweden says COVID over, lifts restrictions Sweden has reportedly declared the pandemic over, scrapping almost all of its COVID restrictions and rules. Lena Hallengren, minister of health, made the announcement on Wednesday, saying COVID would no longer be classified as a danger to society. “As we know this pandemic, I would say it’s over,” Hallengren was quoted as saying. “It’s not over, but as we know it in terms of quick changes and restrictions it is.” AfDB president cautions Africa against dependence on developed countries Akinwumi Adesina, president of the African Development Bank (AfDB), says there is an urgent need for Africa to build a healthcare defence mechanism. Addressing leaders at the African Union (AU) summit in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, Adesina cautioned against the continent’s dependence on foreign countries for healthcare support. “Your Excellencies, we must learn from this experience. Africa can no longer outsource the security of the lives of its 1.4 billion people to the benevolence of others,” he said. “We must secure African lives! It is time your Excellencies, to build Africa’s healthcare defence system.”