It was a case of tumbling from the cauldron into the fire for Abba Kyari, the suspended deputy commissioner of police, when, on Monday, the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) declared him wanted “over his involvement in a 25kg cocaine deal”. Hours later, the police announced his arrest and subsequent transfer to the NDLEA’s custody. The development comes just a few months after the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) had indicted Kyari of conspiring with Hushpuppi, the self-confessed international fraudster, in a $1.1 million scam. The indictment prompted his suspension from the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) while the accusations are still being investigated. But before Kyari became a sore swarmed by the teeming houseflies of controversies, he was once a well-celebrated police officer. He was styled the ‘super cop’ by many Nigerians and was washed in honours celebrating his effectiveness and gallantry as a law enforcement officer. He had the persona of an uber-competent, professional police officer who helped solve several complicated criminal cases across the country, and the image earned him awards and recognitions that placed him in some of the most powerful places in the country. House of representatives honour Kyari for “outstanding performance” On June 11, 2020, DCP Abba Kyari stood in the green chamber of the house of representatives and was honoured “for his hard work and outstanding performance over the years in the NPF”. According to Femi Gbajabiamila, speaker of the house, the honour bestowed on Kyari was not only from the lawmakers but the people of Nigeria. “It is not what they do all the time and for everybody but for those who have distinguished themselves in various fields of service,” he had said. “This is also to show Nigerians that despite the not too good image of the Nigerian police, there are very good officers in the force. “This is the greatest honour because this is the only institution where all Nigerians are represented. This is not an award from the house of reps alone but an award from the entire people of Nigeria.” Honoured by Aisha Buhari In 2018, DCP Kyari shook the hand of Aisha Buhari, the first lady of Nigeria, and received a gilded plaque, which read, “in appreciation and recognition of his gallantry and diligent role in curbing crime in Nigeria”. The award was presented to him at Aso Rock, where Kyari was hailed for his role in solving some of the biggest cases in the nation. Silverbird ‘hero of the year’ for 2018 DCP Kyari was also recognised as the 2018 ‘hero of the year’ by Silverbird Communications. At the event, which was held at the Eko Hotel and Suites, Lagos, the deputy commissioner of police received his plaque from Peter Obi, former governor of Anambra state and ex-vice presidential candidate. Presenting the award to Kyari, Obi praised him for his efforts in “ensuring we are able to have a good night sleep” while thanking the organisers for recognising “those who are working” and not “those who are destroying the country”. “It’s worth celebrating anybody that contributes to ensuring we are able to have a good night sleep. Considering what he’s been able to achieve, I thank Silverbird for recognising him. That’s what we need in this country, to celebrate those who are working. It’s time to stop celebrating those who are destroying the country,” Obi had said. Between 2018 when he was showered with such glowing encomium, Kyari’s reputation has undergone a drastic transformation — these days a far cry from the ‘super cop’ he once was labelled.