Airbnb, a home rental company, says it is offering free short-term housing to 100,000 Ukrainian refugees fleeing the Russian invasion of their country. The Russian invasion of Ukraine entered Day 5 today with no signs of relentless despite efforts for diplomatic talks among the two countries. Brian Chesky, chief executive officer of Airbnb, announced this in a series of tweets on Monday. Chesky said the housing would be funded by the company, donors to an Airbnb fund for refugees, and the generosity of other hosts offering their homes. “Airbnb and Airbnb.org are working with our Hosts to house up to 100,000 refugees fleeing from Ukraine for free,” his tweet reads. “We need help to meet this goal. The greatest need we have is for more people who can offer their homes in nearby countries, including Poland, Germany, Hungary and Romania. If you can host a refugee, go here: http://airbnb.org/get-involved.” 1. Airbnb and https://t.co/enqjlQB0rH are working with our Hosts to house up to 100,000 refugees fleeing from Ukraine, for free — Brian Chesky (@bchesky) February 28, 2022  Chesky also urged people to donate to Airbnb.org for the housing support programme. Airbnb.org is the company’s non-profit organisation that facilitates temporary stays for people in times of crisis. “All stays are free for refugees, funded by Airbnb, Airbnb.org donors and through the generosity of hosts,” he added. “While we work to finalise these details, refugees and asylum seekers who are in need of immediate support can get help from: http://help.unhcr.org/ukraine.” A statement from Airbnb also said that its top leaders had “sent letters to leaders across Europe, starting with the leaders of Poland, Germany, Hungary and Romania, offering support in welcoming refugees within their borders”. “While Airbnb.org is committing to facilitate short-term housing for up to 100,000 refugees fleeing Ukraine, it will work closely with governments to best support the specific needs in each country, including by providing longer-term stays.” According to the United Nations, about 500,000 people are now refugees since the invasion of Ukraine began last week.