The 2022 Committee, an association of business, political, media and civil society leaders, says it is not within its mission to choose candidates for the 2023 general election. There has been the speculation that The Committee is working for Godwin Emefiele, governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), for presidency in 2023. In a statement issued on Wednesday and signed by Kashim Imam and Nduka Obaigbena, The Committee said it is only interested in the quality of leadership that will emerge at all levels. The Committee described the rumour that it is working for any aspirant as an “unwarranted and unnecessary distraction”, adding that candidates are only chosen by political parties. “100 leading business, political, civil society and thought leaders met in Lagos over the last weekend from February 4-6, 2022 under the aegis of The 2022 Committee, in a non-partisan retreat, to map a new consensus for national rebirth. The attendance list included 14 current Governors and 13 former Governors as well as 3 former Senate Presidents,” the statement reads. “Working in 3 Sub-Committees of National Security, The Economy and Nigeria in Transition, the participants recognised that there is an urgent need to seek common ground and irreducible minimum actions to stabilise the polity at this critical time of transition. “The meetings will continue, as we work with Federal and State Governments, current and future political leaders of all political persuasions, as well as other eminent patriotic citizens, for the greater good of the Nigerian people. “Whilst The 2022 Committee is interested in the quality of leadership that will emerge in Nigeria at all levels, we consider attempts to link the Committee with candidates or political parties for the 2023 elections as an unwarranted and unnecessary distraction – candidates are only chosen by political parties and we are not a political party. “All the 100 leading lights of the 2022 Committee have the capacity for national leadership; indeed, amongst the very active participants in the work of the Committee are over 7 persons, from 3 or more political parties, who have already publicly declared their aspiration to lead the country but are desirous of working with other patriots for non-partisan greater national goals. We must have a secure, peaceful and united nation before we can have candidates for political offices. “The Committee believes that what Nigeria needs today is for all patriots to come together to rescue our nation from all political, economic and security threats, and promote the unity of Nigeria. We call on all patriotic volunteers, who are willing and able, to join this collective effort to stabilise the system so we can all build a new Nigeria we can all be proud of.”