Rauf Aregbesola, former governor of Osun, has expressed his support for the governorship bid of Moshood Adeoti, a former secretary to the state government (SSG). The Osun governorship election is scheduled to hold on July 16, 2022. Adeoti is also a chieftain of the The Osun Progressives (TOP), a faction of the All Progressives Congress (APC) loyal to Aregbesola, current minister of interior. The Osun APC is currently split into two factions, with some supporters backing Gboyega Oyetola, the current governor who is seeking a second term in office. Both factions have been at loggerheads over control of the state chapter of the party. Speaking on Monday while addressing supporters at Ijebu-Jesa ahead of the APC governorship primary slated for Saturday, the former governor declared that Adeoti will emerge as next governor of the state. The minister said the party is back “in the hands of true progressives who will work assiduously to win in the July 16 governorship election”. While urging party faithful to continue to work in unity to ensure that Adeoti secures the APC governorship ticket, the former governor expressed support for members of the Rasaq Salinsile-led faction and described them as the “authentic” APC. “Anyone who was with us when we started the journey to reclaim Osun for the progressives in 2004 would know we fought very hard for this victory we have today. We went through several challenges then but through thick and thin, we were able to succeed. This time around, we will succeed,” he said. “We are ready to allow free flow of democratic process to play here. We are not those who play God. We are resolute about reclaiming our party from those who think they can continue to abuse our legacies or even want us to be second fiddles in the party we worked and laboured for. This is our pride and we will sustain it. “They know what they have done to us is bad and they want to continue the impunity. We will not accept it.” Meanwhile, the development comes days after Oyetola submitted his expression of interest form to contest for a second term.