Bola Tinubu, chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), says he is giving his full support to Emeka Oparah, the new vice-president, corporate communications of Airtel Africa Plc. TheCable had reported that Oparah will manage the image of Airtel Africa in its 14 African markets, including Nigeria, as the spokesperson of the company. Prior to this, Oparah was the director of corporate communication and corporate social responsibility (CSR), Airtel Nigeria. In a tweet on Monday, Tinubu lauded the effort of Oparah for his commitment to the organisation. “I congratulate you on your recent appointment as Vice President, Corporate Communications & CSR of Airtel Africa Plc. This appointment, earned on the back of over 19 years of dedicated services to Airtel Nigeria, is an excellent personal achievement of which you must rightfully be very proud,” the tweet reads. “As a proud and patriotic Nigerian, I am always delighted to see other sons and daughters of the soil celebrated, promoted and recognised on the international stage. Tinubu pledged to support Oprah and urged him to keep the flag flying. “It is sadly not often the case that our great nation is associated, internationally, with the kind of corporate success that you now enjoy. It is my fervent wish that this appointment becomes a beacon for others to follow along on the trail you have blazed,” Tinubu said. “The time has certainly come for the world to wake up to the talented and capable men and women residing within the borders of our great nation. Success stories such as your own cannot but contribute to the coming of this necessary awakening. “The challenges you will now face in your new role will not always be easy. However, I wish to assure you that you have my full confidence and support. I am in no doubt that, should you wish, you will rise ever higher within the Airtel Group and continue to set a positive example for all Nigerians wherever they may live in the world. “Permit me, once more, to commend you for this laudable triumph but also to admonish you to give your all to the roles to which you have been appointed. Your obligation, henceforth, is not only to your colleagues, subordinates and superiors at Airtel Africa but also to all of us at home rooting for you to carry the flag of our nation to ever greater heights. I wish you every success in this regard.”