Nigeria on Sunday recorded 24 cases of COVID-19. Here are five updates about the pandemic. New Zealand ends isolation rules for vaccinated travellers from Australia New Zealand has ended its self-isolation requirements for vaccinated travellers arriving from Australia, as the country’s COVID-19 transmission rates soars. Jacinda Ardern, the country’s prime minister, said from Wednesday, vaccinated travellers will no longer need to self-isolate but will still be required to undergo a COVID-19 test on arrival and on day five or six. If the traveller tests positive for the virus, they will be required to self-isolate, in line with requirements for New Zealanders. Unvaccinated travellers will still have to stay in managed isolation. Wuhan market most likely source of COVID, study finds A new study has found that Wuhan market was indeed where the COVID-19 pandemic most likely started. The study uses spatial and genomic data to establish a link between two lineages of the emerging virus and the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market in Wuhan, China. The researchers also report that live mammals were sold at the market toward the end of 2019 and that analyses show a strong connection between the vendors selling the animals and the virus. “Together, these analyses provide dispositive evidence for the emergence of SARS-CoV-2 via the live wildlife trade and identify the Huanan market as the unambiguous epicenter of the COVID-19 pandemic,’’ the report reads. Hong Kong allows COVID home testing Hong Kong health authorities say they would adjust COVID testing procedures to allow some people test from home to ease long queues. Sophia Chan, Hong Kong’s health secretary, said 1.3 million rapid testing kits would be handed out to those in higher risk areas and jobs, and people testing positive would have to register their results online. The authorities also said they would allow some children testing positive for COVID-19 to remain at home, rather than being separated from their parents and hospitalised, after a public outcry from families across the city. Nigeria logs 24 COVID infections The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) logged 24 infections across the country on Sunday. According to the agency, the new cases were recorded in six states and the federal capital territory (FCT). Below is a breakdown of the new infections by states: Abia-7 Lagos-6 Edo-4 FCT-3 Kaduna-2 Osun-1 Rivers-1 The agency’s data showed 20 discharges were recorded on Sunday. No deaths were recorded, leaving the fatality figure at 3,142. The country now has a total of 254,525 confirmed cases and 249,013 recoveries. Canadian province to end nearly all COVID restrictions, most mask rules Alberta, a Canadian province, will end nearly all COVID-19 restrictions on Tuesday, including most mask rules. Masks will only be required in some high-risk settings, like on public transit and in facilities like hospitals. Capacity limits for venues, restrictions on interactive activities, limited liquor service operating hours for bars and restaurants, and screening for youth activities will all be lifted on Tuesday. The remaining rules for schools will also end as will work-from-home mandates. 