Femi Gbajabiamila, speaker of the house of representatives, says the signing of the electoral bill into law will ensure more credible elections in the country. Gbajabiamila spoke on Friday afterPresident Muhammadu Buhari signed the bill at the presidential villa. The speaker said moving forward, Nigerians will enjoy free, fair, and credible elections. He described the law as a “landmark piece of legislation” with far-reaching implications for the country’s electoral system. “Well, first of all, let me join the senate president in commending all the stakeholders, starting from the members of the national assembly, right, all the way through to CSOs, the president, and the general public, the media,” he said. “It has been a collaborative effort by all stakeholders, students, the youth, and today is a combination of the work product of all those people put together. “I believe it’s a landmark piece of legislation and has far-reaching, I mean, far-reaching implications of the provisions contained therein. I can count off the head at least 10 to 15 provisions in that electoral law, that if properly executed by INEC, and the people who the laws are made for, it will be a turning point in the electoral electoral history of Nigeria. “We will witness, not just be mouthing free, fair and credible elections, but we will actually witness free, fair and credible elections moving forward. “So I’m happy that this day has come. It’s been a long coming and I’m sure everybody will be happy. I must say just like what the senate president said, we must give it to this ninth assembly. “I mean, even if we have to toot our horns in the sense that we’re barely three years into our tenure we’ve not even gone our fourth year yet, yet this ninety assembly has been able to put on the table for Nigerians landmark legislation and this is just another one of them.” The speaker said the ninth parliament, which has about a year left to complete its term, will use the remaining time to “polish off some other piece of legislation” for Nigeria’s progress.