Gunmen on Sunday attacked a police station in Okene, Okene LGA of Kogi state. Kingsley Fanwo, commissioner for information and communications, confirmed the development in a statement on Monday. Fanwo said the gunmen about 30 in number, attacked the police station on Sunday night but were repelled by a team of security operatives. The commissioner said one of the attackers was killed while several of the gunmen escaped with bullet wounds. “The Kogi State Government wishes to report that the Okene Area Command of the Nigerian Police Force was attacked by gunmen numbering over 30 in the late hours of Sunday, February 6, 2022,” the statement reads. “However, they were shown the strength and efficacy of the Kogi security architecture as the local hunters, men of the State Vigilante Service collaborated with other security operatives to spontaneously foil the attack. “The superior firepower of the combined security network of the state ensured one of them was gunned down immediately while others ran away with various degrees of gun wounds. Two of their motorcycles were recovered as well as various arms and ammunition. Also, explosives meant to shatter the command were immediately detonated by experts. “The onslaught against the gunmen was coordinated by the Executive Chairmen of Local Government Areas in Kogi Central and the SSA on Security to the Governor in charge of Kogi Central. “No innocent lives were lost, instead, the criminals were the ones that received gun wounds and lost one of them on the spot. “We call on traditional medical homes and other medical facilities to report anyone with gun wounds to the nearest security formation as our local hunters are giving them a run for their money in the bush right now. We shall keep you updated on developments.” In recent months, gunmen have targeted communities in the north-central state. Last October, six persons were killed, while some properties were razed when gunmen attacked Bagana community, Omala LGA of the state.