A group known as the Concerned APC Members Forum has asked President Muhammadu Buhari to pick the next chairman of the party. APC’s convention, where it will elect national officers, is scheduled for February 26. Ali Modu Sheriff, former governor of Borno, and Abdulaziz Yari, former Zamfara governor, are some of those interested in the chairmanship of the APC. In a letter dated February 11 and addressed to the president, Okpokwu Ogenyi, the group’s convener, said Buhari should call a meeting of all the chairmanship aspirants and “hand over the preferred candidate to them”. Ogenyi said the move will calm the nerves of aggrieved party members. “Judging by the activities of the various actors, we appeal to Mr. President not to allow the selfish interest of the 2023 Presidential ambition of some ranking members to destroy the party,” he said. “We want Mr. President to recommend a highly committed and disciplined member, a man of humility and resilience with acute knowledge of party administration that will respect both former and serving governors, senators, ministers, party faithfuls, and of course, the leaders of our party. “We recommend that Mr. President call a meeting of all the aspirants for the national chairmanship position and hand over the preferred candidate to them, instructing an all-inclusive government. “This will immediately heal any injury in the heart of any and the course of explanation to his supporters while he stepped down.” He said since 2015, the ruling party has been in crisis. “Your integrity and sincerity remain the Pillar holding the Party together since the 2015 general elections,” Ogenyi said. “Sir, we are bold to say that our party has been in crisis since we won the 2015 presidential election. This crisis came as a result of a rewarding system where a monkey has worked and the baboon is eating. “Most members of our party are complaining of government patronage while some persons are occupying more than one position in government. “Most members of our party are complaining of government patronage while some persons are occupying more than one position in government.”