The Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) says it has taken delivery of 15 brand new power transformers. The transformers would increase Nigeria’s electricity transmission capacity by 1,487 megawatts, according to TCN. Among other factors, Nigeria’s power sector is confronted by low transmission wheeling capacity against the total installed generation capacity of 12,522MW. According to Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), the country has a wheeling capacity of 7,500MW. Ndidi Mbah, the company’s spokesperson, said this in a statement on Sunday. She said the transformers comprise 10 number 60MVA 132/33kV and five 150MVA 330/132kV capacity transformers. The transformers were retrieved from Apapa ports and delivered to TCN’s central store in Ojo, Lagos state, for delivery to various project sites nationwide. Mbah quoted Sule Abdulaziz, TCN’s acting managing director, as saying the contract for the supply of the transformers, under the Nigerian Electricity Transmission Project (NETAP), was funded by the World Bank. He, however, said the transmission company would decide on the project site where the transformers would be installed. “He (Abdulaziz) informed that on installation and connection to the grid, the 10 number 60MVA 132/33kV power transformers and the five 150MVA 330/132kV transformers will add 637MW and 850MW respectively to the transmission network,” the statement reads. “This consequently will increase the total capacity of the transmission system by 1,487MW while ensuring N-1 reliability criteria in the substations, which is strategic in enhancing grid stability.” Abdulaziz noted that earlier in August 2021, the World Bank also funded transformer supply contracts, which brought in 10 60MVA132/33kV transformers and 25 earthing transformers. He said that out of the 10 different 60MVA transformers, five were installed in Karu and Gombe substations, while two are currently being installed in Kano and Lagos. “This is the first time in the history of TCN that it took delivery of large numbers of transformers within a short period. These are milestone achievements for TCN, as it strives to implement its short-term development plan under the Nigerian Electricity Grid Maintenance, Expansion and Rehabilitation Programme,” Abdulaziz said. “The World Bank-sponsored NETAP project is only one of the TCN donor-funded projects aimed at expanding the transmission grid, while also prioritising maintenance of existing transmission infrastructures. He said the TCN was equally executing several projects funded by the Agence Français de Développement (AFD). He also said that the processes for projects, funded by the African Development Bank (AfDB), was progressing very fast, such that TCN would soon sign contracts for 330kV & 132kV sub-stations. The acting MD said that the procurement of consultants for projects funded by the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), would also soon commence. 