Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo has described Ernest Shonekan, former head of the interim national government, as “an inspiration to the black race”. Osinbajo spoke on Friday at the burial service for Shonekan, which took place at the Cathedral Church of Christ in Marina, Lagos. The former head of the interim national government died on January 11, 2022. Speaking at the funeral, the vice-president highlighted Shonekan’s contribution to national development and urged other Africans to learn from his example. “On behalf of President Muhammadu Buhari and the people of Nigeria, I extend my sincere condolences to the immediate family, Mama Magret Shonekan, the children, Adeboye, Korede, Kemi and Yele for giving him the room to serve his nation and to serve humanity at large,” Osinbajo said. “Shonekan lived his life always conscious and motivated by virtue of duties. As a citizen of considerable privilege, he was ready to give back either on philanthropy or public office, which is a testament to that sense of duty. And even when out of office, Shonekan remained deeply invested in his country. “In 1994, he founded the Nigeria Summit Group, a continuation of his lifelong advocacy of free enterprise as well as his belief that national development is attainable. “As a statesman, he was dedicated and diligent. He was consistently calm and had a dignified presence in the council of state. “He was also a man of great wit and humour. In time, he would make so many other philanthropic and civic contributions to society. “Chief Shonekan lived an extraordinary life. His accomplishments as a businessman and a political figure would be talked about for generations, or perhaps what deserves greater attention is the way he carried himself through life and the high values he exemplified — that genuine respect he had for people of all religions and tribes and his love and generosity to everyone, not just to his loved ones. “He was an inspiration to the entire black race. He proved by his life that destiny for one or a nation is a manifest result of choices made every day by ordinary people doing the best they can and persevering.”