The Police Service Commission (PSC) has directed the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) to conduct further investigation into the allegations levelled against Abba Kyari, suspended deputy commissioner of police (DCP). The commission asked the police to carry out the fresh probe with a different panel. The development was announced by Ikechukwu Ani, spokesperson of PSC, in a statement issued on Friday. “The commission also directed that further necessary investigation should take half the time it took the Police to conduct the original investigation and that the investigation should be carried out by a different panel,” the statement reads. The PSC also directed that the report of the investigation should be suspended in two weeks. In July 2019, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) had revealed how Kyari allegedly collaborated with Hushpuppi, a self-confessed international fraudster, to jail one of the latter’s associates, “after a dispute over a $1.1 million scam on Qatari business people”. The suspended police officer had, however, denied the allegation, claiming that his “hands are clean”. In August 2021, Usman Baba, inspector-general of police, received the report of a panel set up to probe the bribery allegation against Kyari. Days later, Muhammad Dingyadi, minister of police affairs, said the panel report on Kyari had been submitted to Malami. On Monday, Malami, during an interview, disclosed that the federal government is working with the US on the “possible extradition” of Kyari. Giving an update on the development, the PSC spokesperson said: “The police service commission has deferred decision on the case involving suspended Deputy Commissioner of Police Abba A. Kyari, who until his suspension by the Commission was the Officer in charge of the Inspector General of police intelligence response team (IRT). “Kyari had earlier been indicted by a Report of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) of the United States and was also investigated by a special panel set up by the inspector general of police. “The report had earlier been forwarded to the attorney-general of the federation and minister of justice for legal advice by the inspector general of police. “The commission also directed that further necessary investigation should take half the time it took the police to conduct the original investigation and that the investigation should be carried out by a different panel. “The commission took the decision at the continuation of its14th Plenary Meeting which ended in Abuja on Thursday, February 11th 2022 and which was chaired by Alhaji Musiliu Smith, a retired inspector general of police and chairman of the commission.”