Flour Mills of Nigeria Plc (FMN) says it has appointed Yewande Sadiku, former CEO and executive secretary of the Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC), to its board. In a corporate filing on the Nigerian Exchange (NGX) on Friday, Umolu Joseph, company secretary of FMN, said the appointment took effect on the 16th of February. Sadiku was CEO of NIPC from November 2016 to September 2021. “At NIPC, she worked on institutional reforms aimed at proactive investment promotion and embedding a culture of governance and proactive accountability,” the statement reads. “Until October 2016, she was the Executive Director responsible for Stanbic IBTC Group’s Corporate and Investment Banking business, ensuring the realisation of business opportunities in Nigeria’s complex operating environment. “She managed key relationships with regulators and several of Nigeria’s leading corporate and multinational clients. Sadiku was previously Chief Executive of Stanbic IBTC’s investment banking business. “In her banking career, spanning 23 years, Sadiku handled assignments for clients in virtually every sector of the Nigerian economy, providing strategic financial advice while ensuring strict legal and regulatory compliance. She played an active role in the development of the Nigerian capital market. “Sadiku, a proud awardee of the Eisenhower Fellowship for International Leadership, is currently the Acting Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Investors’ Protection Fund of Nigerian Exchange Limited. John Coumantaros, FMN’s board chairman, expressed excitement at the appointment of the ex-NIPC boss. “She has over two decades of executive leadership experience in the investment banking business and capital market industry will be of tremendous value to FMN as we continue to position the Group to take advantage of the ever-changing consumer landscape in the foods and agro-allied sectors,” Coumantaros said. “Her appointment represents our determination to ensure that we have a diverse mix of gender, skills and viewpoints on the FMN Board as we continue to fulfil our purpose of feeding the nation, everyday.”