Nigeria recorded 58 cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday. Here are five updates about the pandemic this Wednesday. Italy to no longer require masks outdoors Italy will no longer require masks to be worn everywhere outdoors. This adds to a growing list of coronavirus restrictions that European countries have relaxed recently. “A new phase is opening up,” Roberto Speranza, Italy’s health minister, said on Italian television. Italy will continue to require mask-wearing in public indoor settings, and Speranza said masks remain an important tool to fight the infection. Italians will still be required to carry a mask with them, and to put it on outdoors if a crowd forms. The new policy will go into effect on Friday. WHO: Half a million deaths recorded since Omicron tragic The World Health Organisation (WHO) says the half a million COVID-19 deaths recorded since the Omicron variant was discovered is “beyond tragic”. Abdi Mahamud, WHO incident manager, said 130 million cases and 500,000 deaths have been recorded globally since Omicron was declared a variant of concern in late November. Mahamud told a live audience on WHO social media channels that “in the age of effective vaccines, half a million people dying, it’s really something”. “While everyone was saying Omicron is milder, (they) missed the point that half a million people have died since this was detected,” he said. “It’s beyond tragic.” Uganda preparing to make COVID vaccines mandatory Uganda is preparing legislation to make COVID-19 jabs mandatory in an effort to tackle low vaccination levels. Alfred Driwale, head of national immunisation programme, told Reuters that “it is to help prevention of a disease, it’s about prevention of deaths”. Considering the impact the pandemic had on the economy this law is needed. Legislation is now with parliament and the health committee is scrutinising it. Nigeria records 58 infections The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has reported 58 COVID infections across the country. The agency in its update for February 8 said the new infections were recorded in six states and the federal capital territory (FCT). Below is a breakdown of the new infections by states: Lagos-35 FCT-9 Edo-5 Delta-4 Kano-2 Rivers-2 Kaduna-1 The NCDC said 66 persons were discharged after recovering from the infection. Also, there were no fatalities on Tuesday. The agency said the report reflects a backlog of 15 cases reported for Lagos state on January 7, and a backlog of six cases reported for FCT on February 7. Nigeria now has a total of 253,838 confirmed cases, 230,211 recoveries and 3,139 deaths. Spain scraps outdoor mask rules Spain is scrapping a mandate to wear masks outdoors, as COVID-19 infection rates drop and hospitals report lower admissions. Mask-wearing will not be necessary outside beginning Thursday, a government spokeswoman said on Tuesday after a weekly cabinet meeting. The rule change includes children at school during their breaks outside between classes. However, masks remain mandatory in indoor public spaces, including public transportation, and when people are unable to keep a safe distance of 1.5 metres (4 feet) between them.