The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) says its operatives have seized 649,300 capsules of tramadol at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport in Lagos. In a statement on Sunday, Femi Babafemi, NDLEA spokesperson, said €809,850 cash suspected to be proceeds of illicit drugs was also seized from two other persons. Babafemi said a suspected identified as Nwadu Ekene Christian was arrested in connection with the seizure of the tramadol capsules, adding that other illicit drugs such as cannabis were intercepted at the airport. “At the Skyway Aviation Handling Company cargo warehouse at the airport, anti-narcotic officers seized 649,300 capsules of tramadol 225mg weighing 460.95kg imported from Pakistan via Addis Ababa through Ethiopian airline on Wednesday 16th of February. Nwadu Ekene Christian, a suspect, was arrested in connection with the seizure,” the statement reads. “On the same day, a female passenger, Ms. Ayeki Happy, who arrived the airport from Italy on Turkish airline flight was arrested with 69,850 Euros cash concealed in her luggage. “This was four days after another lady, Precious Idahagbon, was arrested with 740,000 euros cash hidden in her luggage and undeclared upon her arrival at the airport from Vienna, Austria via Istanbul, Turkey. “Both cash seizures are currently under investigation to establish if they are proceeds of drug business. “At the NAHCO export shed of the airport, operatives seized a consignment of 131 parcels of cannabis concealed in packages of black soap (Dudu-Osun), during outward clearance of cargo going to the UK. “This is as another consignment presented for export to Dubai, UAE at SAHCO shed was also recovered after 30 parcels of cannabis hidden in cartons of cornflakes were discovered in it. “Not less than 6.5kg of Heroin, Khat and Oxycodone packaged for export to USA, and Canada were seized at a major courier company in Lagos by operatives of the Directorate of Operation and General Investigations, DOGI. The drugs were concealed in shoes and carton walls.” In another development, the NDLEA said its operatives arrested one Nasiru Abdulrahman, aged 34, with 476kg of cannabis in Kano on February 25. One Abdulmuminu Abubakar, aged 24, was also said to have been arrested at Gidan Madara Mubi north LGA of Kano with 4,000 tablets of tramadol weighing 225mg on February 22. Babafemi said Abubakar was arrested “while travelling on a motorcycle to deliver the drugs in Bukula, Cameroon Republic”. According to the statement, Buba Marwa, NDLEA chairman, commended the operatives, and urged them to intensify efforts to ensure the eradication of drug cartels in the country.