Adamu Adamu, minister of education, says the Nigerian constitution allows Muslims to practice their faith according to the dictates of their religion. Delivering a keynote address at the 2022 World Hijab Day Public Lecture in Abuja, Adamu said the constitution guarantees freedom of religion for all citizens. The minister was represented by Sidikat Shomope, deputy director of social mobilisation, Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC). He, therefore, called for dialogue on matters of religious differences, rather than resorting to violence. “This, by implication, means that all citizens are allowed to practice their religion according to the dictates of their faith, as long as no harm or inconvenience is caused to other people,” the minister was quoted as saying. “The wearing of hijab by Muslim women is in line with the teachings of Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him), as recommended in Qur’an 33:59. “However, there has been much controversy on this matter in our country, which has unfortunately gone down to the school level and generated needless violent clashes. “I wish to take this opportunity to remind our fellow citizens that there is a lot we can gain by dialoguing on matters of religious differences, rather than resorting to violence. “Our children will remain citizens of Nigeria, irrespective of their faith. They will live and interact in the world outside their schools, where no boundary exists between the religions.” The minister appealed to traditional, religious, and community leaders to use their offices to douse tension and ensure peace, harmony, and tolerance. “I call on parents and our school teachers to ensure that in both words and actions, they present the best model to our children to emulate,” he said. On his part, Ishaq Akintola, the guest lecturer at the event, said hijab was a vehicle of unification, both nationally and internationally, adding that it helps Muslim women to identify themselves. Akintola also said hijab was a symbol of social justice, freedom and equal rights. “Hijab is a key to morality. A hijab-wearing woman is 24 hours conscious of her responsibility. That a woman puts on her hijab is a sign of a responsible woman ready to build the nation,” Akintola said. “When you discriminate against a single woman, you are discriminating against the entire nation.” Last Thursday, the controversy over the use of hijab in schools had led to a clash in Oyun Baptist High School, Ijagbo, Oyun LGA of Kwara. Some Muslim parents had protested against how their children were turned away from school for wearing hijab. But the protest turned violent and many persons were injured. Consequently, the state government ordered the closure of the school over the refusal of the management to allow female Muslim students use hijab.