The Polish Football Association (PZPN) says its national team will boycott the upcoming World Cup qualification play-off match against Russia. In a statement on Saturday, the Polish football body said the decision was reached after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Cezary Kulesza, president of PZPN, said the team does not intend to play the game against Russia and is in talks with other nations participating in the play-offs to take a similar stand that could force FIFA to react. Koniec ze słowami, czas na czyny! W związku z eskalacją agresji Federacji Rosyjskiej na Ukrainę, reprezentacja Polski nie zamierza rozegrać barażowego meczu z rep. Rosji. To jedyna słuszna decyzja. Prowadzimy rozmowy z federacjami  i , aby przedstawić FIFA wspólne stanowisko. — Cezary Kulesza (@Czarek_Kulesza) February 26, 2022  “No more words, time to act! Due to the escalation of the aggression of the Russian Federation towards Ukraine the Polish national team does not intend to play the play-off match against Russia,” the statement read. “We are in talks with Sweden and Czech Republic federations to bring forward a joint statement to FIFA.” Robert Lewandowski, the team captain, also supported the country’s stand, saying it is “the right decision” not to play Russia despite absolving the warring nation’s players and fans of blame. It is the right decision!  I can’t imagine playing a match with the Russian National Team in a situation when armed aggression in Ukraine continues.  Russian footballers and fans are not responsible for this, but we can’t pretend that nothing is happening. https://t.co/rfnfbXzdjF — Robert Lewandowski (@lewy_official) February 26, 2022  “It is the right decision! I can’t imagine playing a match with the Russian National Team in a situation when armed aggression in Ukraine continues,” he wrote on Twitter. “Russian footballers and fans are not responsible for this, but we can’t pretend that nothing is happening.” Russia is due to host Poland in Moscow on March 24 — the same day Scotland is billed to host Ukraine. The development comes about one day after UEFA moved the Champions League final match from St. Petersburg, Russia to the Parc des Princes stadium in Paris, France. Manchester United, the English Premier League side, also cancelled its £40million sponsorship deal with Aeroflot, Russia’s leading airline.