Bukola Saraki, former senate president, says if he is allowed to lead, Nigerians will “have a greater sense of what it means to be truly Nigerian”. Although there have been calls for the former senate president to contest in the 2023 presidential election, he has not officially declared his intention to run for the position. In a Twitter post on Thursday, Saraki said Nigerians have been divided along ethnic and religious lines, instead of focusing on critical issues and the capacity of aspirants, and how they can make the country progressive. He wondered why citizens would allow issues of the past to shape their future when they could work together and be united. “For quite some time now, as a nation, we have focused on the old arguments of ethnicity and regional sentiments, instead of capacity, competence, and other critical issues,” he tweeted. “However, whenever we watch football and when it is time to celebrate as Nigerians at weddings and other social engagements, we are united. Why should we allow past issues to drag us back and define us? Why do we focus on the old issues that do not define our future? “This is why, based on my track record, if I am allowed to lead, all Nigerians will have a greater sense of what it means to be truly Nigerian. “And yes, I believe that I am the “Nigerian for all Nigerians!” Thanks, Ariyo, For quite some time now, as a nation, we have focused on the old arguments of ethnicity and regional sentiments, instead of capacity, competence, and other critical issues. https://t.co/h6iZanx2aN — Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki (@bukolasaraki) February 3, 2022  However, whenever we watch football and when it is time to celebrate as Nigerians at weddings and other social engagements, we are united. Why should we allow past issues to drag us back and define us? Why do we focus on the old issues that do not define our future? — Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki (@bukolasaraki) February 3, 2022  This is why, based on my track record, if I am allowed to lead, all Nigerians will have a greater sense of what it means to be truly Nigerian. And yes, I believe that I am the “Nigerian for all Nigerians!” pic.twitter.com/C6Qr3J9MeM — Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki (@bukolasaraki) February 3, 2022 