Efe Ovueni, a Nigerian based in Canada, has been suspended from medical practice for three months for unprofessional conduct. The suspension was announced on Thursday following a hearing by the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta (CPSA) tribunal — the hearing was concluded in December 2021. The doctor was said to have, on January 21, 2020, hugged a medical officer staff member and blown her a kiss without her consent. Ovueni was said to have admitted his unprofessional conduct during the tribunal hearing and also expressed his intention to ensure that there isn’t a reoccurrence of such conduct. The tribunal determined that since the victim was a member of staff and not a patient, the doctor’s actions did not meet the criteria for sexual misconduct under the health professions act. “Rather, this was a case of a boundary violation between a physician and a co-worker, demonstrating unprofessional conduct that was wholly unacceptable,” the tribunal’s report reads. The tribunal also determined that Ovueni’s practice permit “shall be suspended for a period of 3 months, with 2 weeks to be served on dates acceptable to the Complaints Director and completed within 6 months of the date the Hearing Tribunal issues its written decision and 2.5 months held in abeyance on the condition that no further boundary concerns come to the attention of the Complaints Director and are referred to an investigation for a period of 5 years after the date the Hearing Tribunal issues its written decision”. The doctor was also fined $3,000 and is liable for the undisclosed cost of the hearing and investigation. “If further boundary concerns come to the attention of the Complaints Director and are referred to an investigation within 5 years from the date the Hearing Tribunal issues its written decision, the Complaints Director shall be at liberty to impose the remaining 2.5 months suspension on Dr. Ovueni’s practice permit,” the tribunal added. “If no further boundary concerns come to the attention of the Complaints Director and are referred to an investigation within 5 years from the date the Hearing Tribunal issues its written decision, the remaining 2.5-month suspension shall expire.”