Yakubu Gowon, former military head of state, says he believes Nigeria will attain greatness despite the many challenges. Gowon was speaking on Thursday at the launch of a book by Kayode Fayemi, governor of Ekiti. The book is titled, ‘Unfinished Greatness: Envisioning a New Nigeria’. Speaking on Thursday, the former military head of state said the book speaks on two major issues that Nigerians are concerned about. “One is why Nigeria has not attained greatness. I believe Nigeria is meant for greatness. As the convener of Nigeria prays, I led all groups to pray for the good of our land. Regardless of the diverse difficulties that we have been grappling with since independence, our country shall attain the greatness it wants to have,” he said. “The notion of our greatness is evolutionary though the pace can be made to go faster. “The second notion of envisioning a new Nigeria addresses the leadership question. Our country may not have gotten this in 62 years as an independent nation but we’ve all done our best. This should not undermine our search for quality leadership. “We speak of leadership that seeks to make our unity in diversity work. We speak pf leadership that makes our leadership internal and external safe for everyone. Leadership that is concerned about making democracy work. Leadership that makes Nigerians extremely proud of their green pastures.” Gowon said he believes Fayemi in writing the book, must have pondered on these issues from his “vantage position as a two time governor of his state and chairman of Nigeria governors forum (NGF)”. “I have associated with him for several years. Seeing his determination to make public service work in the public interest of citizens is why I find it easy to accept his invitations to various functions. It is my way of challenging him to do more. Not just because he has the capacity but so that he place himself at the right side of history,” he said. “Like the rest of you, I’m here to enjoy the presentation of a good book written from the perceptive of a fertile mind.” Some of those present at the book launch include Babajide Sanwo-Olu, governor of Lagos state; Abdullahi Ganduje, governor of Kano; Dapo Abiodun, governor of Ogun state; and Ibrahim Gambari, chief of staff to the president who represented President Muhammadu Buhari.