Sharon Ikeazor, minister of state for the environment, says the National Oil Spill Detection Response Agency (NOSDRA) has commenced overflight operations at the site of the exploded vessel to monitor the situation of crude spill in the sea. Saghir el Mohammed, director of press, ministry of environment, quoted the minister in a statement issued on Sunday. According to the statement, Ikeazor said the overflight operation would be sustained to ensure the vacuation of remnants of oil in the damaged vessel. TheCable had reported how the FPSO vessel operated by Shebah Exploration and Production Company Limited (SEPCOL) named ‘Trinity Spirit’ exploded last week. She said the fire at the Ukpokiti oil field has been ‘totally’ extinguished, adding that NOSDRA will monitor the situation and work towards averting a recurrence. “Ikeazor further assured that the National Oil Spill Detection Response Agency (NOSDRA), the scheduled agency under her ministry, will go for overflight today (Sunday) and Monday to monitor the situation of crude spill in the sea,” the statement reads. “She noted that the overflight operation will be sustained in the weeks ahead until whatever remnants of oil in the FPSO is evacuated and measures evolved to forestall a recurrence of such kind of incident. “According to the environment minister, a joint investigation visit to the incident area, as well as the FPSO, was undertaken on Saturday by NOSDRA, the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), the Ondo State Ministry of Environment, Representatives of Communities proximate to the Area and staff of Shebah Exploration and Production Company Limited. Ikeazor said the cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, adding that the FPSO vessel had an estimated 50-60,000 barrels of oil as at the time of the fire. “While the cause of the fire incident is yet to be fully determined, the environment around the FPSO is only slightly covered by the sheen and emulsified oil. “It was earlier reported that the approximate quantity of oil in the FPSO in the recent past was said to be a little less than 200,000 barrels. One of the operators utilizing the services provided by the FPSO was said to have made an offtake of approximately 120,000 barrels before the incident; leaving an estimated 50-60 000 barrels in the FPSO as at the time of the fire incident. “NOSDRA will continue to give updates on this incident after each aerial surveillance scheduled for Sunday and Monday.”