The political relevance of Rauf Aregbesola, minister of interior, appears to be hanging by a thread, given recent events in south-west politics. Since the return of democracy in 1999, the former Osun state governor has been active in the politics of the region. In Lagos, he was commissioner for eight years, after which he governed Osun for another eight years — and then in 2019, he was chosen to serve at the national level as a minister. But in recent months, the political structures he once relied upon in Lagos and Osun states have come crashing down like a pack of cards. THE VALENTINE’S DAY TIRADE Although TheCable had reported that the cordial relationship between Aregbesola and Bola Tinubu, his political godfather, had gone sour as far back as June 2020 — they had denied being at loggerheads. But on February 14, 2022, when many lovers were celebrating love and affection, Aregbesola was at a political event in Oriade LGA of Osun, where he was tongue-lashing Tinubu. The minister said his erstwhile political godfather was exalted “beyond his status and he turned himself to a god over us”. Aregbesola’s comment about Tinubu is believed to have ruffled feathers, and many believe it may have been the final nail on the coffin. HUMBLED AT THE OSUN APC PRIMARY The minister’s camp took a hit at the Osun governorship primary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on Saturday, with his favoured aspirant, Moshood Adeoti, unable to withstand the political fireworks of Gboyega Oyetola, the incumbent governor. Adeoti came a distant second with 12,921 votes as Oyetola polled  222,169 to emerge as the APC governorship flagbearer for the July 16 election. The minister and his supporters have since rejected the results, alleging that the process was skewed to favour Oyetola. With the outcome of the primary, the Ileri Oluwa faction led by Oyetola has all but assumed supremacy in the control of the party structure in the state. ‘BURIED’ IN ALIMOSHO, LAGOS Many political analysts have described Alimosho LGA in Lagos as the political stronghold of Aregbesola. The minister lorded over the politics of Alimosho for many years before his cold war with Tinubu began. Alimosho was believed to be a political gift to Aregbesola by Tinubu. But on Sunday, APC members in the LGA held a funeral rally for Aregbesola’s political career. Yes, you read that right. This morning Apc Member in Lagos (Alimosho ) took to the street to Pronounce their ex leader and current minister of interior Rauf Aregbesola dead . In this video they are seen crying and weeping ‘ah Aregbesola ti ku o ‘ while carrying a coffin . Local politics is too crazy . pic.twitter.com/iTfcYlbjYv — Kazeem Shuaib (@ibn_qazeem) February 20, 2022  The APC members took to the streets with coffins bearing inscriptions such as ‘RIP’, ‘Alimosho says farewell to Aregbesola’. During the rally, the APC members could be heard singing dirge songs for the political career of Aregbesola. The coffins were also burned to signal what they described as the end of Aregbesola’s reign. WHAT NEXT FOR AREGBESOLA? The Muhammadu Buhari presidency will come to an end in 2023 — which will also signal the end of Aregbesola’s ministerial appointment. The minister has already lost his grip on the APC power structure in Osun amid the feud with Oyetola and he has also fallen out with Tinubu. These rifts have dimmed any hope of him contesting future elections in Osun and Lagos states on the platform of APC. As his ministerial tenure winds down, Aregbesola’s political fate hangs in the balance, especially if he remains in the ruling party. His next move will surely define what the future holds for him politically?