Gunmen, on Wednesday, attacked journalists and voters during an invasion of ward where the local government election in Enugu state was taking place. The Enugu State Independent Electoral Commission (ESIEC) scheduled Wednesday for elections for the 17 chairperson and 260 councillorship positions in the state. Although the elections went on peacefully in parts of the state, gunmen disrupted the election at ward 3 in Obeagu, Enugu south LGA, where they shot sporadically to scare away voters. Four reporters in a bus belonging to the Enugu State Broadcasting Service (ESBS) also ran into the gunmen at Obeagu. The gunmen were said to have attacked the bus conveying the journalists, and while some of those on board scampered for safety, Chigozie Alex-Nwafor, a reporter, and Ebuka Ogbozor, the bus driver, were said to have been held back. They were, however, reportedly released after receiving machete cuts, while vehicles in the community were razed. Confirming the development in a statement, Sam Udekwe, chairman of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) in Enugu, condemned the attack. “I find it inexplicable that journalists have suddenly become endangered species even while discharging their constitutional duties,” he said. “This type of act against innocent citizens must not be allowed to take root in the society.” Also speaking on the incident, Mike Ajogwu, chairman of ESIEC, said the commission had been informed of the attack. “I have sent some top commissioners and staff of the commission to go and find out what really happened and get back to me,” he said. “On whether the elections in that ward will be declared inconclusive or otherwise, it will largely depend on the feedback from those I have mandated to visit the ward already.” According to NAN, aside from voters, election officials, and other residents in the neighbourhood who sustained injuries while trying to escape, an unidentified politician was injured on the head by a bullet. When contacted by TheCable, Daniel Ndukwe, Enugu police spokesperson, promised to respond to a message but had not done so at the time of this report. In recent months, the south-east part of the country, including Enugu, has been experiencing a spate of violent attacks perpetrated by gunmen. On February 10, three police officers were killed following an attack on a checkpoint in Enugu south LGA. Two days later, four police officers were killed by gunmen along Amaechi-Ekeotu-Agbani road in Enugu south LGA.