Ayodele Fayose, former governor of Ekiti, says Nigerians will be doomed if the All Progressives Congress (APC) win the 2023 presidential election. Fayose said this in an interview with The Punch on Saturday. He said the 2023 general election is about Nigerians, whether to remain in perpetual poverty or save themselves. “If the PDP does not win the 2023 election, then Nigerians are doomed,” Fayose said. “From what I have seen since 2015, Nigerians are doomed. The kind of leadership that Nigeria has witnessed — insecurity, the economy. “The cost of diesel today is about N400 per litre; during President Goodluck Jonathan’s (PDP) time, it was N140, N145. Whatever we are saying, it is either Nigerians want to remain in perpetual poverty or they save themselves. It is about Nigerians themselves. “Don’t forget that the impact of these things is felt more by the masses. It is the people that are at the receiving end.” Fayose denied reports that he endorsed the APC chieftain, Bola Ahmed Tinibu, for president in 2023. “I have said it over and over, Asiwaju remains a Yoruba leader; I remain a Yoruba leader. We are at different levels of leadership. But if I am being misquoted for the fact that I said Asiwaju is a Yoruba leader, I am saying I am a Yoruba leader, but Asiwaju in his own Yoruba leadership is in the APC; Ayo Fayose in his own leadership is in PDP,” Fayose said. “Who has told you that I don’t want to be president? Who has told you that if the PDP picks me that I will not defeat Asiwaju? Who has told you? You don’t know, maybe I will still contest. If I come out and they zone it to the South-west, and they say it’s Fayose, if they pick Asiwaju, I will defeat him. “I have never seen the quote. It is impossible. How do I claim to be the husband of a woman in another man’s house? It is all heresies. Loose talks. Listen, the PDP government is far better than the APC government in Nigeria. “Would he (Tinubu) leave the APC people and come to give me appointments, or will he make me vice president, such that I work for the APC? It is not possible. Tinubu is for the APC, I am for the PDP. All these insinuations are just to call the dog a bad name to hang it.”