MTN Nigeria says it has not received communications from the Private Telecommunications and Communications Senior Staff Association (PTECSSAN) concerning the intended strike. The telecoms union had threatened to go on strike claiming that MTN refused the request of its workers despite the government’s intervention. The union, however, issued a 14-day ultimatum starting February 10 for the telco giant to address welfare issues. In a statement issued on Wednesday, Uto Ukpanah, MTN’s secretary, said since there is no official communications, the company would not comment on the issue. “MTN Nigeria remains committed to continued engagement with PTECSSAN and its representatives via established channels. If there are any concerns, we are sure that they will be brought to our attention and dealt with in a mutually beneficial manner,” the statement reads. Esther Akinnukawe, chief human resources officer, MTN Nigeria, said the welfare of its workers is of utmost priority and would do everything in the company’s power to sustain such. “Over the past two decades, MTN Nigeria has built a people-first culture that values diversity, inclusivity, and hard work. The Company is dedicated to empowering employees and instilling in them a responsibility for our customers and communities. This is what defines and unites us, all MTNERs are at liberty to exercise their right to free association,” Akinukawe said. “Our cares immensely about the wellbeing of its workers, and regularly reviews people solutions and policies to ensure that they meet global best practice and make MTN Nigeria a great place to work. We are committed to the development of our people and value their hard work and dedication. “Our workforce is our most critical competitive advantage and a key differentiator in the marketplace, so we take staff welfare, remuneration and career development seriously. In line with this, we have stringent policies in place that promote meritocracy and protect our employees from all forms of harassment and discrimination and create lace employees feel valued and safe.”