Nigeria recorded 45 cases of COVID-19 on Thursday. Here are five updates about the pandemic this Friday. Australia approves Moderna COVID vaccine for children from age six to 11. Australia’s medicines regulator has granted provisional approval to Moderna’s COVID-19 vaccine in children from age six to 11. Stephane Bancel, Moderna’s chief executive, called the authorisation an “important milestone” for the company. The vaccination schedule authorised for children is the same as for adults — two shots, four weeks apart — but the pediatric doses are fifty micrograms, half the size of a standard adult dose. Philadelphia drops its vaccine mandate for indoor dining Philadelphia will no longer require proof of vaccination to enter places that serve food or drink. The Philadelphia Department of Public Health which announced the policy, cited improving number of cases and hospitalisations as the Omicron-driven wave recedes. It said if the situation improves, authorities will continue to ease restrictions, but if they go in the wrong direction, the regulations will be reinstated. Masks will, however, still be required in all indoor public places for now. Canada approves Novovax COVID vaccine Canadian health officials authorised a new COVID vaccine from Novavax on Thursday, saying it worked against the Omicron variant. Canada’s health ministry said the Novavax vaccine — the fifth coronavirus shot it has approved — met its “stringent safety, efficacy and quality requirements”. Novavax previously had received emergency approval for its vaccine from the European Union, the World Health Organisation and several other countries. Nigeria records 45 infections The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has reported 45 COVID infections across the country. The agency in its update for February 17, said the new infections were recorded in seven states and the federal capital territory (FCT). Below is a breakdown of the new infections by states: Lagos-18 Cross River-7 FCT-7 Oyo-5 Kano-3 Nasarawa-3 Ekiti-1 Rivers-1 The NCDC said 51 persons were discharged after recovering from the infection. Also, there were no fatalities on Thursday, making it the fifth day in a row with no deaths recorded. The agency said the report includes 18 confirmed cases reported from Lagos state for February 16; seven confirmed cases for February 16 (3), 17 (4); and 21 community discharged cases for February 16 reported from FCT. It also includes three discharged cases reported from Oyo state for February 16. Nigeria now has a total of 254,182 confirmed cases, 230,530 recoveries and 3,141 deaths. Japan announces partial reopening of borders Japan has announced that it will partially reopen its borders to non-tourists beginning in March. Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida announced that the country will begin a gradual reopening to all foreigners except tourists, with a maximum of 5,000 people entering Japan each day. Those entering the country must be tested before and afterwards. Those who test negative after three days will be able to leave quarantine, and those who test positive must finish the full seven-day isolation. Kishida said people who have received booster shots will be allowed to enter without quarantine if they are coming from a country deemed to have the spread of Omicron under control. He did not specify which countries will be on that list.