A bill seeking to establish the Nigeria Centre for Vaccine Research and Development has passed second reading at the house of representatives. Following the outbreak of COVID, there have been calls for Nigeria to look into local production of vaccines. In 2021, the federal government approved the release of N10 billion to support local production of the COVID vaccine. The bill, which is sponsored by Kasimu Maigari, a lawmaker from Taraba state, seeks to create a centre where medical specialists can conduct research and produce vaccines. Leading the debate on the motion during plenary session on Tuesday, Maigari said the country has expended billions of naira to procure COVID vaccines. According to him, there are many unknown diseases on the African continent and it is only appropriate for Nigeria to have a vaccine development centre. Contributing to the debate, Haruna Mshelia, a lawmaker from Borno state, said the vaccine centre will be a “game-changer in healthcare delivery”. “Manufacturing is the endpoint. We have to research first,” he said. “Even though we have some research institutes, the country needs one specifically for research development and manufacturing to tackle present and future diseases.” Also speaking, Rotimi Agunsoye from Lagos said if established and given the required resources to function, “it will do us (Nigerians) a lot of good”. Ndudi Elumelu, the minority leader of the house, said with concerns on vaccine equity, it has become imperative for Nigeria to have a vaccine centre. “When Ebola came, we were taken by surprise. We were not able to cure Ebola. It was with trial and error that we were able to resolve the issue of Ebola,” he said. “We didn’t have a vaccine that could cure Ebola. It was by accident that we were able to come out of it. On the issue of polio, it was the same thing. “Yesterday, I was watching on television were many doctors and medical experts died in Kano and other places as a result of Lassa fever because we don’t have the wherewithal to produce vaccines for them.” Tahir Munguno, chief whip of the house, said there is a similar centre in Jos, Plateau state, but that efforts should be made to improve the facilities. “We have a vaccine production research institute in Jos. Inasmuch as I am not opposing the creation of a vaccine development centre in Nigeria, I am craving for the indulgence of this house to further boost and reinforce the National Veterinary Research Institute in Jos so that they can carry out their mandate without hindrance,” he said. The bill was overwhelmingly voted for when it was put to a voice vote by the presiding officer, Idris Wase.