The Osun faction of the All Progressives Congress (APC) loyal to Rauf Aregbesola, minister of interior, says it has uncovered a plot to kill the minister. Aregbesola had visited some areas in the state on Monday, during which he endorsed Moshood Adeoti, a former secretary to the state government (SSG), for the next governorship election. Abiodun Agboola, publicity secretary of the faction, alleged that the plot was to lay an ambush for the minister and his entourage while on his way to visit Iwo federal constituency in the state. “We wish to inform the general public and security agencies in the state of a plot to kill the minister of interior, ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, by default by the state government-sponsored political thugs,” Agboola said. “We said by default because the plan was to lay ambush for the minister’s entourage and deal them massive attacks on his way to visit Iwo federal constituency. “The heinous plan which was hatched at the Okefia government house was to ensure that the Iwo federal constituency meeting is stopped. “The leadership of the Hon. Rasaq Salinsile-led All Progressives Congress (APC) in the State of Osun, therefore, call on security agencies in the state to be proactive in designing a foolproof measure that will bring to naught, the evil plot by the Governor Oyetola’s group.” The group also added that it is “reliably informed” that some government officials held a meeting to frustrate the Iwo outing. “Immediately after the meeting, our source said calls were put through to the government head thug to prepare his men very well for the execution of the evil plot,” the faction said. “It would be recalled that Aregbesola escaped death yesterday when armed political hoodlums attacked his convoy at Orisunmibare, Osogbo. “We are also reliably informed that plans are afoot by these desperate elements to clothe their thugs in alhaji Moshood Adeoti’s T-shirts with the directive to attack members of the public and cause mayhem in town with a view to rope the gentleman aspirant in.” But reacting on Tuesday, the state government denied the allegation. Addressing party members at the residence of Bisi Akande in Ila-Oragun, Sunday Akere, special adviser to Oyetola on political matters, said some political hoodlums were only trying to cause crisis in the state. “There is no truth in the claim that there are plans to assassinate Aregbesola,” Akere said.