Stallion NMN Limited has introduced made in Africa Nissan Navara brand to Nigerian showrooms, as the company plans to start assembling the new pickup locally from June 2022. Launched in Lagos on Saturday, the new Navara pickup was made available to a few journalists for a test drive. Speaking at the unveiling, Amit Sharma, general manager, Stallion NMN Limited, revealed that his company would start assembling the new Navara pickup in Nigeria from June 2022. Sharma described the new Navara as a reliable partner for work or travel and a workhorse that comes with many best-in-class technologies, including an array of Nissan intelligent mobility features and safety systems, making it the most advanced brand yet. “This new Navara brings the best of what Nissan has to offer in one package. Rugged, tough and smart, the pickup offers premium comfort, all at a price that provides customers great value for money,” he said. “This particular NAVARA is made in Africa for Africa. So it comes with the capability to withstand even the toughest tropical terrains of the continent, especially Nigeria. “Building on more than 85 years of Nissan pickup heritage, the new Nissan Navara represents the pinnacle of the company’s experience in building tough and reliable pickups.” According to Sharma, Nissan is offering the Nigerian market a comprehensive range, starting with double cabin 4×2. Further elevating the pickup’s rugged character is the introduction of the range-topper PRO-4X grade — a first for the Navara nameplate. “PRO-4X offers an even more impressive, eye-catching style to appeal to extreme adventure lovers who crave an escape from the daily routine,” he added. “Purpose-built for Africa, boldly styled and technologically advanced, the all-new, all-tough NAVARA PRO-4X is loaded with technology and safety features to keep you and your loved ones connected, safe and comfortable.” The general manager added that the new Navara is powered by a 2.5L petrol engine that has been proven reliable in Sub-Saharan Africa driving conditions. “The powertrain was chosen, as it meets the performance, economy and durability requirements for customers in this demanding segment. The engine is available with an impressive power output of 125KW, 244 Nm torque”, he added. “A strengthened rear axle and improved truck bed volume make the vehicle the ultimate worksite partner, ready to take on any challenges whilst still offering optimal room and comfort. “For pickup customers, one of the most essential qualities is the payload. And, from all indications, Nissan’s engineers worked hard to increase it, delivering segment-leading capacity. “When in four-wheel-drive mode, the Navara activates its Active Brake Limited Slip Differential system (ABLS), which manages power delivery and wheel braking between the front and rear axles and between the left and right of the vehicle, depending on traction and speed. “Navara is also equipped with a Vehicle Dynamic Control system (VDC) and ABS brakes, which enables drivers to be more confident and feel secure when towing large payloads and driving through muddy terrain with less acceleration and brake operation. “An additional offering is the Hill Start-Assist, and Hill Descent-Assist allows drivers to change pedals easily from brake to accelerator to carry out safer driving on hills.” He said the Intelligent Around View Monitor (around view monitor with moving object detection) feature added to the pickup’s safety to enable easier manoeuvring when performing tasks such as parallel parking and positioning of the vehicle during trailer hitching. “For the first time, the system also features an off-road monitor, made to confirm surrounding obstacles at low speeds, when in four-wheel drive, empowering enthusiasts to take on the toughest terrains with confidence,” Sharma said. “And what’s more, the new Navara, like all Nissan vehicles, is sold with extended peace of mind warranties and guaranteed after-sales support from our dealerships located across the country.”