The Rotary Club of Lagos has reaffirmed its commitment to human capacity development. The club made the reaffirmation at its annual dinner on Saturday, where it gave a scorecard of the humanitarian projects executed in the 2021-2022 rotary year. According to the club, the rotary year started with projects in the areas of education, health enhancement, environmental sustainability, business support and empowerment among others. It said while nine major projects have so far been concluded, 11 others are still under execution. Some concluded projects include the cervical cancer vaccination programme at Lafiaji Secondary School Lagos Island; disbursement of one million naira micro-credit fund to 20 beneficiaries from Sandgrouse market and equipping the music workshop and kitchen of the Federal Nigeria Society for the Blind (FNSB) vocational training centre Oshodi. Other completed projects are 10 days training workshop on science, technology, engineering, arts and mathematics (S.T.E.A.M) robotics for teachers and students at Lafiaji Senior Secondary School Lagos Island; planting of 15 queen’s palm tree at Dolphin High School, Lagos Island and disbursement of N50,000 each micro-credit fund to market women and men at Itamarun village, a community adopted by the Rotary Club of Lagos. Speaking at the ceremony, Babawale Agbeyangi, president of the club, said if others follow the examples of the club in terms of service to humanity, most of the challenges in the society will be resolved. “In Rotary, our immediate community is our priority. So what we have done this year is to focus on women and our target for the rotary year is to give 300 women interest free loans. 90 percent of the people who have accessed our micro-credit this year are women,” Agbeyangi said. “We started this 20 years ago, and this year, we doubled the amount of the microcredit-loan. Wherever you are from, as long as you are a woman and you are a trader, you can’t afford to access credit from the bank, Rotary Club of Lagos will support you. “This year, our rotary international president, Shektar Mehta, said that we must focus on women and you know that all over the world, women are generally disadvantaged. So our focus is to help more women wherever and how we can do it.” Commending the club and the president, Elias Igbinakenrua, chairman of the occasion, said the remarkable project executed and earmarked for execution sends a strong message that the Rotary Club of Lagos is a club of eminent personality. “Rotarians are people that are organised; they time to pick out their members who buy into the vision. This journey started with the vision of one man, Paul Harris. From the gathering of friends to share ideas, it has become a true humanitarian service organisation, a huge one at that,” he said.