Nigeria on Wednesday recorded 65 cases. Here are five updates about the pandemic this Thursday. France’s COVID vaccine pass will remain until ICUs are emptied, says minister Olivier Veran, France health minister, says the country’s COVID vaccine pass will be in place until hospitals are able to operate normally without cancelling non-emergency treatments to accommodate COVID patients in intensive care. The vaccine pass, which government says helps prevent the spread of COVID, has sparked outrage among residents who believe it infringes on their rights. “When we have emptied intensive care units, or at least … when there is no further cancellation of procedures and if no new variant in circulation, then the utility of the vaccine pass will be debatable,” Veran said. German vaccine expert panel to recommend fourth COVID shot Germany’s expert panel on vaccines is expected to recommend a fourth COVID-19 shot. Thomas Mertens, head of the committee, disclosed this on Thursday. “We have data from Israel that shows a fourth dose significantly improves protection from a severe case of illness,” Mertens said, adding that the recommendation will be made soon. Nigeria records 65 infections The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has logged 65 COVID infections across the country. The agency in its update for January 2, 2022, said the new infections were recorded in six states and the federal capital territory (FCT). Below is a breakdown of the new infections by states: Lagos-19
Kano-16
Rivers-12
FCT-11
Kaduna-4
Niger-2
Delta-1 The NCDC data showed that 26 persons were discharged after recovering from the infection. One person was said to have died of COVID complications. The agency said Wednesday’s report includes two cases in Niger logged on January 31. Nigeria now has a total of 253,405 confirmed cases, 229,676 recoveries and 3,136 deaths. COVID: New Zealand moves to relax border controls Jacinda Ardern, New Zealand prime minister, has announced a phased reopening of the country’s borders. The COVID border control was imposed at the beginning of the pandemic. The five-stage plan will begin with completely vaccinated citizens in neighbouring Australia, who will be able to return home starting on February 27. It will subsequently be extended to fully vaccinated New Zealanders around the world beginning from March 13. The government expects its borders to fully reopen by October. “We are well on our way to reaching that destination, but we are not quite there yet,” Arden said. Tonga impose lockdown after five reported COVID cases Tonga has imposed a nationwide lockdown following five COVID cases reported in the country. Hu’akavameiliku, prime minister, reportedly said on Tuesday two men handling incoming shipments at the capital’s port tested positive in routine testing. On Wednesday, authorities said three members of one of the port workers’ relatives also tested positive.