Ayuba Wabba, president of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), says the union will hold an “advocacy march” at the national assembly on Monday. Wabba disclosed this on Sunday in a letter addressed to media organisations in Abuja. According to him, the “advocacy” is in the light of the recent decision of the supreme court nullifying executive order 10. Buhari, on May 22, 2020, signed the executive order, which empowers the accountant-general of the federation to deduct funds for the state legislature and the judiciary from federation allocations to states. However, all the 36 states, through their attorneys-general, filed a suit on September 17, 2020, contending the constitutionality of the executive order. On February 11, 2o22, the supreme court nullified the executive order on the grounds that the president exceeded his constitutional powers in issuing the order. Speaking on the development, Wabba said the march is to call the attention of the lawmakers to the need to address the issue of local government autonomy in the constitution. “As a follow-up to the process of constitution amendment before the national assembly, especially on autonomy for local governments, judiciary and the legislature, the NLC wishes to inform you that organised labour is mobilising Nigerian workers for advocacy at the national assembly on the Feb. 28,” the letter reads. “Our mobilisation is to enable workers to make their voices heard on this very important legislation. “This, we believe, holds the key to the strengthening of our democracy, boosting our economy and improving the lots of Nigerian workers at the grassroots, the judiciary and the legislative arms of our government. “Our show of support for ongoing legislative initiatives for constitution amendments, especially with regards to strengthening the autonomy for local governments, state legislatures and the judiciary is against the background of efforts to misinterpret the recent Supreme Court judgement on Executive Order 10. “We know that the judgement of the supreme court did not impeach the Constitutional provisions prescribing and protecting the autonomy of local governments, state legislature and the judiciary. “We have perfected plans to embark on a number of national actions and campaigns to raise public awareness on this critical issue.” Meanwhile, in April 2021, Femi Gbajabiamila, speaker of the house of representatives, said the last time the issue of local government autonomy was considered, a significant portion of the state houses of assembly kicked against it. “While we were working on constitutional amendment, two-thirds of the states did not agree with us. So it is certain that it is the people that will decide whether they want autonomy for local government or not,” he had said.