Ismail Adewusi, postmaster-general and chief executive officer of the Nigerian Postal Services (NIPOST), has called on African postal bodies to seek opportunities offered by technology to improve financial inclusion. Adewusi said this on Tuesday in Abuja while playing host to representatives of the Pan-African Postal Union (PAPU) committee on technology. He highlighted the need for technology in the face of new global business ideas and opportunities. Adewusi, while emphasising the need to be compliant with global trends, reminded those at the meeting that with the decline in ordinary mail, postal bodies must avail themselves of the technical know-how. He urged them to work with banks and airlines to embrace digital transformation. “Effort should be intensified on financial inclusion, through collaboration with financial institutions like banks considering the Post’s spread,” a statement signed by Franklin Alao, NIPOST spokesperson, quoted Adewusi to have said. “E-commerce items are on the increase in Europe and other climes. How do we avail ourselves with the emerging trend considering the decline in ordinary mail?” In his speech, the NIPOST boss also called attention to issues of supply chains where the conveyance of mails within Africa, and the larger world should be considered in relation to the airlines. He said it was important for PAPU to deliberate on relationships with different customs agencies of respective countries as part of strategies towards seamless operations. He added that PAPU needed to look into the security of mails at every point from the acceptance, processing, dispatches, delivery and improvement in the quality of service. On the issue of customer satisfaction, Adewusi said operators must improve on service delivery to recover their share of the markets that had been taken over. Also speaking at the meeting, Jessica Sengooba, assistant secretary-general of PAPU, said the operations and technology committee has an important task at the commencement of its inaugural meeting. Sengooba said the ministers in charge of the postal union mandated the committee to drive the modernisation and digital transformation of African postal services. “In today’s digital economy architecture, the Post has to maintain its important role in the national socio-economic discourse and continue to transform both its operations and service bouquet,” she said. Sengooba said the general secretariat is in discussion with several interested partners that include MasterCard, AFRALTI, AFCAC, AFRAA, and EUROGIRO, among others. “It is our fervent belief that these partnerships will enhance and promote the work of the Post in Africa,” she added. Founded in 1980, PAPU is a specialised institution of the African Union. Its main objective is to coordinate all activities aimed at developing postal services on the African continent.