The house of representatives has asked the Nigerian Customs Service (NCS) to pay the sum of N360 million to families of persons killed by its officers in Oyo and Katsina states. The lower legislative chamber passed the resolution on Tuesday following the adoption of an investigative report presented by Leke Abejide, chairman of the committee on customs and excise. The report was considered and approved at the ‘committee of the whole’ chaired by Idris Wase, deputy speaker of the house. OYO KILLINGS TheCable had reported how customs officers reportedly killed four residents in Iseyin, Oyo state in May 2021, while engaging alleged smugglers. At its sitting on Tuesday, the green chamber ordered the NCS to pay N20 million each to the four families of those killed during the clash in Iseyin. It also directed that N2 million be paid as compensation to a victim who suffered gunshot injury. For the killings in Igangan, Igboora, Ayete, Tapa in Ibarapa areas of the state, the house ordered N80 million compensation to the families of the deceased families and N2 million to the injured victim. KATSINA KILLINGS TheCable had also reported how residents were killed last August in Katsina after a patrol vehicle belonging to the NCS reportedly lost control and crashed in Jibia LGA of the state. As compensation for the incident, the lawmakers demanded that the sum of N20 million each be paid to the families of the 1o victims who died in the tragedy, while the sum of N2 million each be given to 13 persons who sustained injuries. In addition to the compensation awarded to the various victims, the legislators recommended that “provision should be made for procurement of ballistic vehicles (bulletproof), bullet proof vests, and helmets urgently for Nigeria Customs Service to confront the daredevil smugglers attacking their officers at border stations whenever the smugglers opened fire on them. This would encourage Nigeria Customs Service to be able to curtail smuggling with fewer causalities on their side”.