Femi Falana, a senior advocate of Nigeria, has asked the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) to enforce preventive measures against coups in the sub-region. In less than 18 months, four coups have taken place in the West African region. The latest of the recurring coups is Burkina Faso, where military officers took over from the democratically elected leaders in January 2022. ECOWAS and African Union  (AU) had condemned the coups while imposing sanctions on the affected countries. Falana — in a letter addressed to Nana Akufo-Addo, Ghanaian president and ECOWAS chairman — said leaders in the region must take measures to enforce respect for human rights, the rule of law and end impunity of political leaders. The human rights advocate said the “persistent failure” of ECOWAS leaders to deal with threats to democracy contributed to the recurring coups. “I am writing to urge you to provide the leadership necessary for the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) to apply the ECOWAS treaties and protocols on democracy and human rights with a view to adopting preventive measures to promote the rule of law, end impunity of political leaders, and ensure full respect for citizens’ human rights including socio-economic rights,” the letter reads. “Following the latest military coup and unconstitutional change of government the Republic of Burkina Faso has been suspended from the ECOWAS. The coup is coming on the heels of at least five previous coups from the member states of ECOWAS. “Unfortunately, it has become routine for ECOWAS leaders to act after-the-fact rather than taking preventive measures to enforce respect for human rights, the rule of law, and end impunity of political leaders who frequently seek to change their national constitutions for personal gain. “I am concerned that for many years, official impunity, abuse of human rights, grand and systemic corruption, flagrant disregard for the rule of law and grinding poverty arising from economic mismanagement have been pervasive throughout the sub-region, and indeed the African continent. “Other legal and constitutional infractions include unconstitutional revisions of national constitutions to keep political leaders in power, and manipulating electoral and other laws to disqualify political opponents and enhance electoral success for the incumbent. “The persistent failure of the leadership of ECOWAS to take a preventive and active role in dealing with these threats to democracy, human rights and the rule of law has continued to contribute significantly to recurring coups and unconstitutional change of governments in many countries. “In light of recent developments in Burkina Faso and elsewhere in the subregion, I am calling on the ECOWAS to show leadership and strong political will in this matter, and that you should, in your position as chairman of the ECOWAS, convene an extra-ordinary session of the Authority of the ECOWAS in order to discuss the matter, and the recommendations proposed in this letter. “The ECOWAS should also make the meaningful and effective implementation of its treaties and protocols on democracy and human rights, and obeying the rule of law a condition for retaining the membership of the institution.”