The Police Service Commission (PSC) says it suspended two police officers — Sunday Ubua and James Bawa — named in the cocaine deal involving Abba Kyari, suspended deputy commissioner of police. Ikechukwu Ani, spokesperson of the PSC, announced the suspension, in a statement on Thursday. “The Police Service Commission has suspended assistant commissioner of police, ACP Sunday Ubua and assistant superintendent of police, ASP James Bawa from the exercise of the powers and functions of their respective Offices with effect from Monday, 14th February, 2022,” the statement reads. On Monday, the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) declared Kyari wanted over alleged links with an international drug cartel. Femi Babalola, spokesperson of the NDLEA, alleged that Kyari and his Intelligence Response Team (IRT) arrested some drug traffickers who arrived in the country from Ethiopia with 25kg of cocaine but took 15kg of the seized substance for themselves. The police arrested Kyari, Ubua, Bawa, and John Nuhu for “tampering with narcotic exhibits and unprofessional infractions” and handed them to the anti-drug agency. The spokesperson of the PSC said the commission asked Usman Baba, inspector-general of police, to suspend two police inspectors — Simon Agrigba and John Nuhu. He said the commission’s decision was transmitted to the inspector-general of police in a letter dated February 16. “The Police Service Commission has suspended assistant commissioner of police, ACP Sunday Ubua and assistant superintendent of police, ASP James Bawa from the exercise of the powers and functions of their respective Offices with effect from Monday, 14th February, 2022,” the statement reads. “The two police officers were working under the suspended DCP Abba Kyari in the Intelligence Response Team of the Force Investigation and Intelligence Department of the Nigeria Police Force. “They were also alleged to be involved in the current cocaine seizure and transfer to the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency. “The commission in the letter titled “Re- Investigation into seizure and Transfer to the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency of 25 kilogrammes of Cocaine by the Office of DCP, Intelligence Response Team (IRT) of the Nigeria Police Department of Force Intelligence Bureau” stated that in accordance with the provisions of the Public Service Rules 030406, the Commission has approved the suspension of the Officers “until the outcome of the investigation into the allegations levelled against them”. “The commission also directed the inspector-general of police to “note also that DCP Abba Kyari, who prior to this allegation was on suspension, shall remain so until the conclusion of investigations”. “The inspector-general of police was requested to place on suspension Inspector Simon Agrigba and Inspector John Nuhu in accordance with the powers of delegation.”