SystemSpecs, a financial technology company, has established two new subsidiaries to expand services across Africa and beyond. The two subsidiaries include SystemSpecs Technology Services Limited (STSL) and Remita Payment Services Limited (RPSL). The company disclosed this on Wednesday while announcing the appointment of Ernest Ndukwe as the new chairman of the company. It added that the appointment follows the retirement of Christopher Kolade, who led the company for 15 years. SystemSpecs also unveiled a series of year-long initiatives which include the 30th Founders’ Day commemoration, SystemSpecs Graduate Internship Programme, awareness health walk, anniversary gala, a special Children’s Day essay competition, and a summer coding boot camp. The company said the disclosures were part of activities to flag off the company’s 30th anniversary. John Obaro, group managing director, SystemSpecs, said the expansion aligns with the company’s vision of deepening its capacity to meet the technology needs of a broader market. “We are glad about how much we have been able to contribute to the transformation of the financial and human capital technology ecosystems in Africa, especially with Remita, our integrated payment and collections solution; HumanManager, our comprehensive payroll and HR management solution; and Paylink, our eCommerce platform,” Obaro said. “In these thirty years, we have created solutions that have impacted lives and put Nigeria on the global technology map. We have raised a new generation of Nigerian software talents and empowered private and public sector organisations of all sizes to effectively manage their people, finances, payments and collections. “After 30 years of operating from Lagos and Abuja Nigeria, SystemSpecs is positioned to extend its reach further on the African continent and beyond, introduce new solutions, and expand the scope of the operations of the group.” Demola Igbalajobi was appointed as the managing director, STSL, while ‘Deremi Atanda became the managing director, RPSL.   Editor’s note: This story has been updated to correct errors in some spellings.