President Muhammadu Buhari says Nigeria’s future depends on the country’s involvement in activities that revolve around science and technology. According to a statement by Femi Adesina, presidential spokesman, Buhari said this on Tuesday when he conferred the Nigerian National Order of Merit (NNOM) award on three Nigerians. Recipients of the award are Oluyinka Olutoye, a surgeon (medicine 2020); the late Charles Chidume, a professor of mathematics (science 2020); and Godwin Ekhaguere, a professor of mathematical physics (science 2021). The president said he was very proud to welcome the awardees to the league of honoured citizens, adding that the nation would continue to celebrate the scholars’ achievements as a shining example worthy of emulation. “Please, endeavour, at all times, to serve as beacons of hope and aspiration for the younger generation of Nigerians, reminding them that our survival and collective future as a nation ultimately rests on our being active participants in global developmental efforts, especially in science and technology,” he told the recipients. The president said since the Nigerian National Merit Award (NNMA) was established 43 years ago, the addition of the three recipients brings the total number of recipients to “only 79”. He said this confirms the high standards of the award and the strict adherence to quality and merit-driven evaluation procedure for selecting laureates. Buhari also commended members of the NNMA governing board and the committee of assessors for the professionalism in carrying out their duties. Following the request of the NNMA governing board for improved funding, the president promised that the federal government would provide special intervention. “I wish to reassure you that this administration is fully committed to giving the NNMA the recognition that it deserves, by immortalising its recipients who have taken this country to greater heights both in Nigeria and in the diaspora,” he said. “We are a nation keen on fostering excellence across board and we will continue to celebrate those who have attained measurable levels of excellence in their professional life.”