The Nigeria Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Agency (NMDPRA) says it has suspended the operations of four filling stations in Anambra for taking delivery of adulterated premium motor spirit (PMS). Victor Orjiakor, the operations controller at NMDPRA, said this on Wednesday in Awka. The price of PMS had increased to N200 per litre in Awka and some parts of the state, according to NAN. Orjiakor said the proactive surveillance checks suggested that the products delivered to the filling stations might have been lifted from the depots that received the ‘methanol contaminated’ PMS consignment which entered the country last month. He added that samples had been collected from the outlets for laboratory testing and that they would not be allowed to sell the suspected unwholesome product to customers. “We track every truck coming into the state, we don’t have any NNPC depot facilities in Anambra; we crosscheck every product coming in through Enugu and Aba depots and with that, we were able to discover four stations that received suspected adulterated PMS,” Orijiakor said. Orjiakor condemned the artificial increase in the price of PMS, saying teams of the agency will ensure marketers sell at the industry approved range of N162 and N165 per litre. He also warned security agencies against harassing filling stations, adding that the agency is the only recognised establishment responsible for regulating the petroleum industry. “There was no official increase in the price of products at the depots and that marketers who flouted the price regulation and compromised their pumps would be made to face the law,” he added. “The product supply in Anambra is satisfactory in spite of the prevailing inadequacies in general supply, adding that the agency was working to ensure that there was no scarcity. “We are the only regulator in Nigeria, and we are doing it diligently, round the clock, no other organisation is authorised by law to regulate anything. “Anybody doing so is on illegal duty and is not acceptable to us and can never be. “Part of our strategy is that we enlighten marketers that we are the only organisation that regulates their activities and also tell them to stand up and tell these people that they don’t have the right when they come to their outlets. “However, in the course of activities, we may have to call for their services, but we must lead the team, nobody should threaten marketers. “We are managing price control and product availability pending when the current supply gap is bridged, and we are doing that with a blend of advocacy and enforcement.”