Residents of the journalists’ estate in phase one area of Arepo, Ogun state, have written a petition to Dapo Abiodun, governor of the state, over the “invasion” of their community by “thugs”. In the petition dated February 8 and signed by the journalists, identified as members of the Journalists’ Estate Residents Development Association (JERDA), the community said thugs have repeatedly invaded the estate and destroyed properties. According to the petition signed by Olufunke Fadugbe and Toye Olori, chairman and secretary of JERDA, respectively, the journalists alleged that the thugs came from the neighbouring Beachland estate and destroyed the “entrance arc located at the point of security access” which leads to Arepo estate. The association said the entrance arc had been at the estate since 2003 when the estate was inaugurated — but a new one was installed on February 7 with the approval of the state government. JERDA added that aside from serving as a demarcation for the security post, it also “delineates the allocated perimeter approved by the Ogun state government”. “The new arc was installed on Tuesday, February 7, 2022, with due notice to relevant authorities, including the Police at Warewa Police station and the Ogun State Ministry of Works as well as Ministry of Physical Planning,” the petition reads. “The approved installation was witnessed by an Ogun State Ministry of Works assigned engineer and inspected later by senior official from the state government and it was confirmed that we followed due process and specifications as approved by the state.” The journalists, however, alleged that some thugs led by some community leaders from the neighbouring area destroyed the arc on the grounds that the the Arepo estate residents “failed to pay homage” to the Olu of Arepo before installing the new arc. “We have made several overtures to address their perceived grievances over the years, but they have become more violent in their bid to frustrate our effort to secure lives of our members, our families and the estate,” the document reads. “We will like to put government on notice of those who have aversion to peace in this community and may be working against efforts of government to protect lives and property of citizens. “Beyond our control, the population growth in Arepo, buoyed by constant influx of young people from all parts of the country, is becoming a resting reservoir to communal violence and destruction that may thwart the efforts of the state government.” The journalists also sought the intervention of the police to ensure the safety of residents of the estate, and also investigate the “invasion” with a view to prosecuting those involved in the destruction of the arc.