The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has announced the results of the by-elections conducted on Saturday in Plateau, Cross River, Imo and Ondo. The by-elections were held in the four states, including Akure north/Akure south federal constituency, Ondo state; Jos north/Bassa federal constituency, Plateau state; Ogoja/Yala federal constituency, Cross River state, and Ngor Okpala state constituency, Imo state. Below are the results as declared by INEC: PDP WINS PLATEAU BY-ELECTION Musa Agah, candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has been declared winner of Jos north/Bassa federal constituency by-election in Plateau state. Oyeyinka Oyerinde, INEC collation/returning officer for the election, announced the results in Jos on Sunday. Oyerinde said Agah polled 40,343 votes to defeat his main challenger, Adamu Muhammad Alkali of the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP), who got 37,757. “Agah having satisfied the requirements of the law is the declared the winner of Jos north/Bassa federal constituency and is hereby returned elected,” he said. The INEC returning officer said Joseph Aku, candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), came third in the exercise with 26,111 votes. The election was held to fill the constituency’s vacant seat after the death of Haruna Maitala, who died in a car accident on Abuja-Keffi road in April 2021. APC WINS IN CROSS RIVER The electoral umpire has declared Jude Ngaji of the APC winner of Ogoja/Yala federal constituency by-election in Cross River state. Ngaji polled 22,778 votes to defeat his closest challenger Mike Usibe of the PDP who scored 20,590 votes. John Edor, INEC returning officer, announced the result on Sunday in Ogoja. Edor said Ngaji scored 22,778 votes to defeat his closest rival, Mike Usibe of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who garnered 20,590 votes. The election was conducted to fill the void left after Jarigbe’s departure to run for the senate seat in Cross River north. APC WINS IN ONDO The electoral body has declared Alademayokun Olarewaju, candidate of the APC, winner of the by-election in Akure north/Akure south federal constituency in Ondo state. Deji Ogunseni, INEC returning officer who declared the result, said Olarewaju scored 26,370 votes to defeat Olumuyiwa Adu of the PDP who got 24,201 votes. The seat was declared vacant after the death of Adedayo Omolafe in August 2021. APC DEFEATS PDP IN IMO Blyden Okanni, candidate of the APC, defeated Emeka Nwachukwu of the PDP in Ngor Okpala state constituency by-election in Imo. Dennis Akoh, INEC returning officer for the election, announced the results in Owerri, Imo state capital on Sunday. Akoh said Okanni got 9,248 votes to defeat Nwachukwu who polled 7,161 votes. The INEC returning officer said the candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Christopher Nwaiwu, came third in the election with 501 votes. He said the total valid votes cast were 17,280, while 582 votes were rejected in the poll contested by 11 candidates. Akoh said out of a total of 94,118 registered voters in the area, 18,083 voters were accredited for the poll.