Sunday Dare, minister of youths and sports development, has urged the Super Eagles to “visit the anger” of their second-round exit from the African Cup of Nations (AFCON) on the Black Stars of Ghana. Both countries will face off next month in a World Cup qualification play-off game. The minister spoke on Tuesday night during a virtual meeting with some of the players and top brass of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF). Dare said the team must learn from the history of rivalry between Nigeria and Ghana, adding that “we must not lose” the encounter. “I know you are still unhappy about the loss to Tunisia, but I want you to visit the anger of the defeat by Tunisia on Ghana. We all know about the history of the rivalry between Nigeria and Ghana in football, and this is one fixture that we must not lose,” the minister said. “We know that dogged spirit is there in you, and we also want you to see yourself as one big family. We have confidence in you that you can do it and will give you all the support. “Coaches Eguavoen and Amuneke have smooth access to the NFF President, and he will always be ready to provide what you need. As for the pitch of the MKO Abiola National Stadium, we have experts working there all the time, and I assure you it will be in perfect condition for the match.” Amaju Pinnick, president of NFF, reiterated the importance of the two-legged fixture while adding that it is “non-negotiable”. “These are two very crucial matches in which you have to give more than your best. Winning the World Cup ticket is non-negotiable,” he said. Also speaking, Ahmed Musa, Super Eagles captain, said the team is “ready for the battle” and will ensure a favourable result is achieved. “The FIFA World Cup is the biggest football tournament in the world, and every player wants to feature there,” he said. “We just want the NFF to help us get enough fans into the Abuja Stadium for the second leg. “We will go to Ghana and dig our feet and ensure we get a result. We must admit that Ghana also want to qualify and they have a strong team.” Nigeria will slug it out with the Black Stars in Cape Coast on March 24 before facing each other once again at the MKO Abiola National Stadium, Abuja, on March 27.