Babajide Sanwo-Olu, governor of Lagos, has asked stakeholders in the state chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to unite for the victory of Bola Tinubu, an APC chieftain, in the 2023 presidential election. According to a statement by Gboyega Akosile, chief press secretary to the governor, Sanwo-Olu spoke on Wednesday during a visit to Amuwo-Odofin LGA and Oriade LCDA, where he commissioned the Senator Oluremi Tinubu Primary Health Centre in Festac town. Tinubu, in January, had said he informed President Muhammadu Buhari of his intention to contest the presidency. Speaking during the commissioning of the health centre, Sanwo-Olu called on party leaders and members to embrace unity, as it would be beneficial to the party and make it stronger. He also appealed to residents to participate in the ongoing voter registration exercise, so they can exercise their civic responsibilities in the 2023 general election. “We have a lot to be proud of in Lagos. We have a lot to make bragging right both at the state and also at the national level. We should see that the sacrifice of our national leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, will certainly not go in vain and that is why I am encouraging everyone that the journey we have started at ensuring that we have Asiwaju (Tinubu) representing us at the centre is on the right course,” he said. “As individuals and community, we all have a role to play. We all have a duty to ensure that the ongoing registration in INEC and the collection of your PVC is important because it is only when you do this that you can exercise your civic responsibility. “I want to assure you that once you have that, nothing will stop us from achieving this agenda. “I think it is also important at this point to admonish some of our leaders to close ranks and work for the victory of our party, APC, and presidential aspiration of our leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. “All the leaders in Amuwo-Odofin and Oriade should come together. We must put our house in order and unite without allowing anything to divide us. There are enough benefits if we work together. “We are not aspiring to win Lagos alone; we are also working to go to Abuja. So, I want to appeal to all leaders to do all that is required for our party to be stronger. We should not speak with two voices.”