The National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA) and Connected Development (CODE) have signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to enhance primary healthcare delivery in the country. With the MoU in place, CODE will be able to expand its tracking and evaluation of primary healthcare centres (PHCs) across the country. In 2021, using its FollowTheMoney social accountability tool, CODE said it tracked 90 primary healthcare centres (PHCs) in 15 states across the country. According to CODE, 80 percent of the PHCs were found to be substandard and unfit to store and effectively administer COVID vaccines. The partnership is said to guarantee a path towards uncovering gaps in the healthcare system and introduce best practices for Nigeria’s health sector. Speaking at the MoU signing ceremony on Monday, Hamzat Lawal, CODE chief executive officer (CEO), said to achieve a better healthcare delivery system, the gaps in the system must be identified. Lawal and Shuaib “A large number of Nigerians, especially those living in remote communities, rely on PHCs for their health concerns,” Lawal said. “There exists a myriad of challenges within the primary healthcare system which we’re working to uncover with the aim of identifying solutions that will improve service delivery and enhance the healthcare system in Nigeria and all across Africa.” On his part, Faisal Shuaib, NPHCDA executive director, said the partnership would achieve transparency in the agency. “This kind of partnership is a giant step towards transparency and openness in the NPHCDA. This MoU signing is an opportunity to openly demonstrate this transparency,” Shuaib said. “We welcome this collaboration because it is also an opportunity to hear from people we serve. It is an opportunity to get feedback on the services that we deliver. “More than 70 percent of PHCs across the country do not have the right infrastructure, right drugs, utilities and limited healthcare workers. “Collaborations like this will provide opportunity for CSOs to evaluate, gather data and advocate for more resources and it will be funnelled towards strengthening the PHC sector in Nigeria.”