Airtel Africa Plc has appointed Emeka Oparah, a communications professional, as vice-president, corporate communications. Airtel disclosed this in a statement issued on Tuesday. According to the statement, Oparah will manage the image of Airtel Africa in its 14 African markets, including Nigeria, as the spokesperson of the company. Before his appointment, Oparah was the director of corporate communication and corporate social responsibility (CSR), Airtel Nigeria. “A highly respected crisis and perception management expert, Oparah, has over 25 years experience in the Communications industry spanning Journalism, Advertising, Public Relations, Events, Sponsorships and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) with 19 years in Airtel Nigeria. He rose from the position of Public Relations Manager to Head of PR, Events & Sponsorship and later Head of Corporate Communications & CSR before attaining his current position as the Director Corporate Communications & CSR for Airtel Nigeria, a position he has held since June 2011. “Prior to joining Airtel Nigeria, he had stints in Imo Newspapers Limited (publishers of The Statesman, Sunday Statesman and Statesman Extra); Patike Communications (a Public Relations Consulting firm), Candid Communications and Richland Communications (both Advertising Agencies) and Cadbury Nigeria, one of Nigeria’s foremost Food and Beverages Manufacturing Company, where he worked for 8 years as Media Relations Manager. “A Mass Communications graduate of University of Nigeria, Oparah is a member of the International Public Relations Association (IPRA); International Association of Business Communicators (IABC); Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR) and Advertising Practitioners Council of Nigeria (APCON) and has attended numerous courses locally and internationally in Communications, Management and Leadership.” Last year, the telco appointed Olusegun Ogunsanya as CEO to replace Raghunath Mandava. Recently, Airtel Africa surpassed Dangote Cement to become the most capitalised company listed on the Nigerian Exchange Limited (NGX).