Goodheart Ekwueme, the lead pastor of Revival House of Glory International Church (RHOGIC), has advised Nigerians to ensure they vote for quality representation in the 2023 elections. Goodheart, who is the son of the late Alex Ekwueme, former vice-president, said this on Sunday while speaking with journalists in Abuja at the final session of the ‘Revival is Here Again International Conference (RIHA-IC) 2022’, a programme organised by the church. His advice comes hours after the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) announced the schedule of activities for the 2023 elections. “As people of God, we’re praying (towards the 2023 elections); we will continue to pray. There’s nothing God can’t do through prayer. Having said that, I believe that darkness is a backdrop for light to shine. So, where we are is a great opportunity for us to make anything wrong in history to be right and we trust the Lord in return for our best,” he said. “I speak to Nigerians. Let’s rise up to take advantage of our civic responsibility. Number one, register; number two, vote. Go out there and do the needful and please, please don’t let anybody buy your conscience. “Vote your heart, vote your conscience and don’t be bought easily. It’s your right. You will regret doing that if in the next season, you wrongly bring in somebody who you’re not happy with.” Speaking on the significance of RIHA-IC 2022, Ekwueme said the programme is to celebrate the fifth anniversary of the church. “It’s five years as a people in the city of Abuja and five is very symbolic for any true believer or child of God. Five is grace, and we believe God that it is a milestone worth celebrating, going back to God who began the work and we trust Him to release grace for the next phase and season,” he said. On his part, John Tetsola, the guest speaker and president of Ecclesia Word Ministries International, New York, United States, urged Nigerians to focus on quality leadership skills when voting in the 2023 elections. “A key thing in any nation that struggles, whether what we call third world nation — although I don’t believe in a third world nation — is always based on the mindset,” he said. “So, the lifestyle of being a criminal and all these negativities that we can ascribe to a nation that happens in Nigeria is all as a result of the mindset. “It is the most difficult thing to change. You can endeavour to change a nation, but you can’t change a nation without changing the mindset of the people. “Now, the question is, how is a mindset changed? Well, one of the first things is that everyone that is part of a society has to make a commitment, that they are going to see and do things differently from the way they used to doing it. “That is just the beginning of the process. It’s a journey. It’s not something that happens overnight. It’s an individual commitment that is made to see the journey becomes a reality.” Other conference speakers were Wale Oke, president, Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN); Emmanuel Kure, former national secretary, PFN, and overseer of Throneroom (Trust) Ministry, Kaduna; David Abioye, first vice-president of the Living Faith Church Worldwide; and Joshua Selman, founder and senior pastor of the Eternity Network International.