Yahaya Bello, governor of Kogi, has approved the implementation of N30,000 as minimum wage for the workers in the state. In April 2019, President Muhammadu Buhari signed the national minimum wage bill into law. the decision came after the national assembly passed the bill approving N30,000 as the new national minimum wage. On January 2, Ayuba Wabba, president of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), listed Kogi and six other states that were yet to implement the new minimum wage, adding that workers in the affected states had been given notice to prepare for strike. On Tuesday, Folashade Arike-Ayoade, the secretary to the Kogi state government (SSG), confirmed the implementation after a meeting with labour unions. She said the delay in the new wage implementation was due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which hindered the constituted working committee from meeting regularly, and commended the labour union for their cooperation and patience. On his part, Edward Onoja, the deputy governor, who represented Bello, said the decision of the organised labour not to resort to strike led to the amicable resolution on the implementation of the minimum wage. “Governor Yahaya Bello is passionate about the welfare of civil servants and would continue to give priority attention to its workforce,” Onoja said. Also speaking, Hannah Odiyo, the head of the state civil service, said the constituted committee is proud to have reached an agreement with the labour union without recourse to strike. “With the signing of the agreement on the new national minimum wage, the committee had completed its work peacefully, without recourse to strike action,” she said. Also speaking, Onuh Edoka, the state chairman of the NLC, said the planned strike by the state labour union will be suspended. “The earlier notice of strike served on the state government had been suspended with immediate effect considering this giant stride taken by government,” he said. “We indeed commend the state government for signing the agreement with the mandate of immediate implementation to give civil servants in the state a new lease of life. “Consequently, we assure you of civil servants’ commitment to effective productivity in all sectors of the economy.”