BY OJI ONOKO The Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academics), University of Jos, Professor Rahila Gowon elegantly stepped onto the podium. Smartly dressed, she was the epitome of beauty and brains. Her verdict elicited tumultuous applause from the capacity-filled Prince Tony Momoh auditorium. “The Department of Fine and Applied Arts is very important because it not only provides knowledge to students but it provides skill acquisition opportunities for students.” This was validation from the highest quarters on how serious the University of Jos takes the study of Fine and Applied Arts. The significance was even more poignant as she was representing the Vice-Chancellor, Professor TankoIshaya at the event organized by the National Gallery of Art (NGA) to showcase the artworks of the lecturers and students of the Department in what it tagged, Art Fair Jos. The date was Thursday, January 27, 2022. Earlier, the Director-General, NGA, Chief Ebeten William Ivara laid out the reason for the Art Fair. He said: “In putting today’s event together, NGA seeks to encourage the creative spirit of the Jos Art School, and recognise the immense contributions of staff and students alike, to the growth of the art school, since its inception in 2013. I must commend the staff and students, whose works are on display here today, for putting forward a rich array of expressive pieces that represent the very best of art tradition, spanning the lifetime of the department. In exhibiting side by side with their lecturers, it is hoped that the students will realise the heights they can attain in their artistic pursuits, and be prompted to aim higher in their academic endeavours. It is also hoped that this synergy will produce an entrepreneurial package that will be the delight of art lovers and all who will visit the Fair.” He explained that over the years, NGA has lent tremendous support to the promotion of art education and development, through various programmes targeted at enhancing the artistic development of both art instructors and students alike. “NGA is delighted and proud, to support the Department of Fine and Applied Arts of the University of Jos, and pledges to continue to do all within its power, to promote Art Education in the country.” On his part, the Chairman, Governing Board, NGA, Ambassador Umaru Azores Sulaiman commended the parastatal for rolling out the visual arts of Plateau State through its elite institution, the University of Jos for all to view and appreciate. He said the move indicates the extent NGA is willing and ready to go in showcasing Nigeria’s diverse art. He showered praises on the Jos Art School for achieving so much within a short life span of eight years. “The Art School boasts of highly rated lecturers in all aspects of visual arts with graduates doing the school proud around the country. The focus on this School by NGA, therefore, is timely.” It is no wonder that the erudite Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academics), Prof. Gowon expressed utter happiness at the success of the Art Fair which showcased paintings, sculptures, textiles, graphics, and ceramics with many tagged on an opening day. “It will aid revenue generation, skill acquisition, and art appreciation in Nigeria,” she declared. How apt, as both organizations accelerate visual arts practice in Nigeria and beyond. Onoko is deputy director/head, media, National Gallery of Art, Abuja.