President Muhammadu Buhari says his administration will sustain the provision of social safety nets for the poor and vulnerable in Nigeria. The president spoke on Friday at the virtual official presentation of Nigeria’s review report at the 31st Africa peer review forum of African Union (AU) leaders in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Addressing African leaders, Buhari said social safety nets would be further sustained, while access to education and opportunities will be expanded. According to a statement by Femi Adesina, presidential spokesperson, Buhari said the government would also take advantage of information, communication and technology to ensure inclusiveness, access and create more opportunities. “The government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria remains committed to providing social safety nets for the poor and most vulnerable in our society, while also taking advantage of the huge opportunities offered by the information and technology sector,” he was quoted as saying. “Your excellencies, Nigeria’s strategic focus, as we set out to achieve the objectives of the African Union Agenda 2063, has been around the following: Building a thriving and sustainable economy; enhancing social inclusion and alleviating poverty; enlarging agricultural output for food security and sufficiency; attaining energy sufficiency in power and petroleum products.” He also listed other areas of focus to include: “Expanding transport and other infrastructural development, business growth, entrepreneurship and industrialisation; access to quality education, affordable healthcare and productivity, social cohesion and security; and, building a system that fights corruption and improve governance”. According to the president, Nigeria remains committed to achieving the set goals in spite of the challenges that the report highlighted, including the COVID pandemic. The president said the review exercise was far reaching, as it touched the various segments of Nigeria’s polity and highlighted the progress recorded since the first peer review. “The report also highlighted some challenges and as a country, we are prepared to review those challenges in the context of our internal dynamics in Nigeria, ultimately with the determination of achieving Agenda 2063 goals of the African Union,” Buhari added. Buhari congratulated the other three countries (Namibia, Niger and South Africa) which were reviewed alongside Nigeria, and commended them for the “boldness and courage” to present their countries for the comprehensive exercise. He also urged other member states to join the forum and present themselves for review, adding that “there are so many lessons that we can all learn together and create the Africa we want”. 