Victor Lar, campaign director of Ali-Modu Sheriff Campaign Organisation, says his principal can help the All Progressives Congress (APC) have a good outing in the 2023 elections. Sheriff, a former governor of Borno state, is aspiring to be the national chairman of the APC. Speaking in an interview with NAN, Lar said Sheriff has no link with the Boko Haram sect. In 2014, Stephen Davis, an Australian negotiator, had named Sheriff as one of the sponsors of Boko Haram, but the former governor has repeatedly denied the allegation. Lar also said insinuations that if elected as APC national chairman, Sheriff’s tenure would be characterised by litigations because of alleged cases with the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) “could not be true”. “Sheriff’s name is not on the list of sponsors of Boko Haram released by the United Arab Emirates (UAE), security agencies have been investigating him since he left office in 2011 and had not found him guilty of the allegations,” Lar said. “If he was involved, he would have been arrested or his involvement made public. In any case, I challenge anyone with information proving his involvement to come forth with such. “Having a case with the EFCC means standing trial or being prosecuted. Sheriff is not standing trial. In any case, those alleging should go to EFCC.” Lar assured that under Sheriff’s leadership, there would be no litigations in the ruling party. “I bet you, there will be no litigations at all. If there will be, the number will definitely reduce because alternative dispute resolution mechanisms will be put in place,” he said. He added that there was a need for the APC leadership to negotiate the possibility of having a consensus national chairmanship candidate ahead of its convention, in order to ensure a rancour-free exercise. “We will have to do a lot of horse-trading to land safely, the whole thing is likely going to be an anti-climax,” he said. “The factions that followed the party’s 2021 state congresses can only threaten the election if there is voting. “But if it is a consensus or by presidential approval, it is going to be an anti-climax and then we will land safely. The moment there is a consensus, everybody will sheath their swords.” He said the party would need someone who would understand and appreciate the four cardinal power pillars of the APC. “Having been a former party national chairman, Sheriff understands how to deal with the party’s leadership and provide meaningful direction, and he has the capacity to relate with the presidency,” he said. “In 2023 like I will continue to insist, the peculiar challenge for the APC will be that President Muhammadu Buhari will not be on the ballot. “And if he is not on the ballot, we need a strong man who understands that the essence of politics and associating as a political party is to win power legitimately. “And to win power legitimately, you have to appreciate how to contest the election and win. “Sheriff knows what it takes, with persons and resources in getting results and that is the person we will need in 2023.”