President Muhammadu Buhari is currently meeting with the All Progressives Congress (APC) governors at the presidential villa in Abuja. The meeting is coming amid the rigmarole surrounding the national convention of the ruling party. The party has fixed its convention for March 26 while March 12 was earmarked as the date it will elect zonal officers across the six geo-political zones. The governors were meant to have met with the president before now, but the sit-down was delayed due to his trip to Brussels, Belgium, to attend the EU-AU summit. Issues surrounding the postponement of the party’s convention are expected to dominate the discourse at the meeting. The party had earlier fixed February 26 for the convention but a postponement was announced on Monday after some confusion on the date. John Akpanudoedehe, national secretary of the APC caretaker committee, had said zonal congresses would be held prior to the party’s convention. “After deliberations and agreement with the national caretaker committee, we have agreed and approved that the activities of the national convention commence from the 24th of February and terminate on the 26th of March,” Akpanudoedehe had said. “The convention activities will commence on February 24 and terminate at Eagle Square on 26th of March. In between the convention, we have agreed to have zonal congresses.” Stakeholders of the APC have been at loggerheads over the party’s national convention. Salihu Lukman, a former director-general of Progressive Governors Forum (PGF), had said Mai Mala Buni, chairman of the caretaker committee, does not want the convention to hold. He accused the Yobe governor of working with some governors and “Yahoo Yahoo politicians” to prevent the convention from taking place. Meanwhile, Yekini Nabena, a chieftain of the party, called for patience and trust in Buni’s leadership. Nabena said some leaders of the party are sponsoring a “campaign of calumny” against Buni and his committee, adding that they “cannot be stampeded” to take any action that will “eventually work against the chances of the party in near future”.