Oyo state government on Wednesday sealed off Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company (IBEDC) over alleged failure to pay mandatory bills and taxes. Wasiu Olatunbosun, the commissioner for information, said IBEDC has sealed off over N400 million debt. Olatunbosun said IBEDC owes N139,440,000 in harmonised bills, N122,590,000 infrastructure bills, N116,516,111.41 tax audit bills and N22,000,000 signage bills. He said the action was not taken as retaliation for the disconnection of electricity to the state secretariat. A source at the state secretariat told TheCable that the electricity supply to the complex had been disconnected for about a week. The commissioner said: “The government approached the high court of justice in Ibadan to seek an order to seal off the premises of IBEDC because the company has been ignoring bills served it by the men of the Oyo State Board of Internal Revenue Service for the past two years. “It is important for everyone to remember that it is the duty of all, individuals and businesses, to pay taxes and levies. Without these payments, the government cannot provide basic necessities and perform necessary functions. Therefore, IBEDC, like any other business interest, should do the needful and meet its revenue obligations.” Meanwhile, John Ayodele, chief operating officer of IBEDC, described the action as “retaliatory”. Ayodele said the Oyo state government is owing IBEDC a “whopping consumption outstanding of N450 million for over a period of three years”. He said: “The management of Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company (IBEDC) Plc hereby informs its esteemed customers of the retaliatory and illegal action of the Oyo state government over the issue of its huge indebtedness. “The Oyo state government on Wednesday February 9, 2022, commenced the sealing of our offices within the state over some suddenly contrived debts labelled revenue bills and personal income without due notification. “This issue of revenue bills and personal income arising now is quite suspicious. Oyo state government is owing IBEDC a whopping consumption outstanding of N450 million for over a period of three years. “No business in this country can run successfully with such a huge outstanding, the power we distribute to customers must be accounted for and paid for, we have no choice but to disconnect the Oyo state secretariat, so it is worrisome to see that the government has sealed off our offices with this underhand and arm twisting tactics, instead of paying the debt owed. This was not done in good faith and it would have a damaging effect on the business and service delivery to our customers.” He however appealed to the state governor to look into the matter in the interest of all concerned.