The Imo police command says it has arrested one Deberechi Chukwu over the killing of a retired police officer in Mgbala community, Oguta LGA of Imo state. Mike Abattem, police public relations officer (PPRO) in Imo, said the suspect was apprehended while fleeing to a neighbouring state. The police spokesperson said Chukwu is one of the inmates who escaped during the Imo prison break, adding that he has been involved in the killings of security officers in the state. “Sequel to a report of a case of Murder received by the Agwa Divisional Police Headquarters that, on 01/02/2022 at about 2152 hours, a group of young men suspected to be cultist resident in Mgbala Community Agwa in Oguta LGA of Imo State, conspired amongst themselves went to the house of one Christian Kpatuma, a retired Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP) and a native of Mgbala, abducted and took him to a nearby bush where they killed him and later carried the corpse back and dump it in front of his compound,” the statement reads. “On receipt of the information, the Commissioner of Police, Imo Command, CP Rabiu Hussaini psc, immediately dispatched the ever active and gallant command’s tactical teams to the Agwa Community with a mandate to fish out the perpetrators of this dastardly act. “On arrival, the teams commenced a discreet investigation. And after a diligent gathering of both forensic and technical intelligence, one of the suspects, Deberechi Chukwu, the leader of the cult group that killed the retired police officer, CSP Christian Kpatuma was arrested while escaping to a border state. “In the course of Investigation, it was revealed that the suspect, Deberechi Chukwu is a notorious kidnapper and an escapee from the Imo Correctional Center Owerri, Imo State. The suspect, after escaping from the Imo Correctional Centre, recruited young men into his cult group and were terrorising the Agwa community. It is also, on record that, he was involved in the killings of a lot of security personnel in the state. However, he has made a useful statement and has volunteered to assist the police in the arrest of other members of his gang presently on the run.”