Chukwudimeme Onwuamadike, suspected kidnap kingpin better known as Evans, had denied the allegation of his involvement in abducting a businessman. While fielding questions from Yusuf Sule, the prosecution counsel, during Friday’s court session, Evans said he was forced to sign documents and act in a certain manner as directed by the police. He denied being a kidnapper, adding that he has a transport business with over 30 workers. Evans also denied collecting $420,000 as ransom from the family of one Sylvanus Ahamonu, a businessman, stating that he never met the man until his arrest. Ahamonu and his wife testified via Zoom on December 17. The businessman had told the court that his car was ambushed by some men in police and military uniforms, including Evans, who claimed to be officers of the defunct special anti-robbery squad (SARS) of the Nigeria Police Force. He said he was released weeks after a ransom of $420,000 was paid. However, when the prosecutor noted during cross-examination that Ahamonu had identified him (Evans) in court, the defendant said he was easily identifiable. “Ahamonu and Idowu Haruna (the investigating police officer) could have conspired with the police,” he said. “My pictures are everywhere, all over the world. Before my picture was everywhere, people knew who I was. “I had a haulage and logistics business with over 30 staff and drivers in Amuwo-Odofin.” Evans also claimed that there was no mention of his haulage and logistics business in his statement because it was written by the police. He also said he does not have medical documents before the court to prove that he was tortured by the police. He, however, noted that while he was incarcerated, he filed a fundamental human rights suit against the police at the federal high court in Lagos over the alleged torture. Evans also spoke on why he was portrayed in a happy mood in the confessional video played in court when the prosecution presented its case, saying he was forced to do so by the police. “The police told me to be laughing and smiling in the video. You do not know what I encountered in the hands of Abba Kyari and his boys. My eyes saw hell,” he said. “It was what they told me to be doing that I was doing.” Earlier, while testifying in his defence, Evans denied knowing Ahamonu. “I do not know Slyvanus Ahamonu. I only met him at the IG guest house in Falomo,” he said. “One day, at the IG guest house, the police brought some documents and asked me to sign. I asked what the documents were for; they didn’t answer me. They said that if I didn’t cooperate with them, they would kill me. “When I refused, inspector Philip asked them to take me to the back of the guest house. When I got there, they were pressing cigarette butts on my body.” He also spoke about seeing people he was paraded with, adding that “they said l will see what will happen to those people; that it is better I sign those documents”. “They killed about six persons in my presence and I signed the document. I was not allowed to read it. I think it is the document that was used to bring me to court,” he said. “I do not know anything about the allegations before this court. I don’t know who Ahamonu is. I only met him at the IG guest house. I had no prior contact with him.” Evans also stated in court that the police found no guns in his residence. Oluwatoyin Taiwo, the presiding judge, adjourned the case till March 11 for continuation of trial.