The federal government says arrangements are in place for Nigerians arriving from Ukraine through the borders in Romania and Hungary. Gabriel Adudar, permanent secretary, ministry of foreign affairs, disclosed this in a statement issued on Sunday. Following the invasion of Ukraine by Russia on Thursday, many residents have been forced to flee to neighbouring countries. Adudar said due to the challenges faced by Nigerians crossing into countries bordering Ukraine, especially the Polish border, the government has taken steps to also arrange for accommodation and feeding pending evacuation. “The Ministry of Foreign Sffairs is fully abreast of all the challenges Nigerians crossing into countries bordering Ukraine, especially the Polish border, are facing and we are taking adequate measures to assuage the challenges,” the statement reads. “The Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs has spoken with his counterpart, the Foreign Minister of Ukraine, on these unsavoury developments and both are working on alleviating the suffering of Nigerians, including deploying the International Organisation for Migration (IOM) to the border to ensure easier access to all Nigerians and other nationals. “For now, movement to the Hungarian Zahony border and Romanian Suceava, Tulcea, Satu Mare County & Maramures borders is advised, as they have approved visa free access to all Nigerians coming from Ukraine and arrangements for accommodation and feeding, before evacuation is arranged.” The ministry also urged relatives of Nigerians in Ukraine to “remain calm as the federal government us working very hard to get them all home safely”. On its part, the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM) has asked Nigerians to contact the Romanian embassy if they encounter any difficulties. “The Nigerian Embassy in Romania wishes to inform Nigerians arriving from Ukraine that arrangement has been put in place to receive them at the Romanian entry points,” the commission said in a statement. “The Embassy hotlines are: Consular Officer, +40747309174; Head of Chancery, +40786091964. On Friday, Valerii Kirdoda, the Ukrainian ambassador to Nigeria, had said Nigerians would be safely evacuated as soon as the airspace is made open for flights.