The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has issued an air operator’s certificate (AOC) to Xejet, a new airline offering only business class flights. An AOC is an approval granted by a national aviation authority to an aircraft operator for commercial purposes. The airline received the certificate recently at the NCAA office at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos. “Conceptualised as a Business Class only airline, Xejet aims to be the airline of choice for premium flyers,” a statement on the airline’s website reads. ‘Based out of Nigeria, Xejet plans to upgrade existing Boeing B737 with only Business class seats.” In 2021, the airline acquired Embraer ERJ 145 aircraft from Skyworld Aviation for commercial operation in Nigeria. According to aerospace technology, ERJ-145 is Embraer’s 50-passenger regional jet airliner. Xejet also has ATR 72 and Boeing B737-500 on its fleet size. Speaking during the presentation of the AOC, Musa Nuhu, director-general of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), said the authority was elated that the airline completed the rigorous certification process. Nuhu was represented by Godwin Balang, NCAA general manager for air operators’ certification and surveillance. “I must say, to go through this certification process is not an easy thing. I am aware that effectively, this process took almost one year,” he said. “Having gone through this process, we are elated and delighted because what that means is that you have brought yourself to compliance in conformity with our regulations. The issuance of this certificate means that you have complied with the requirements. “This is one of the critical elements of the activities we are required to do as an authority; which is certification. Now you are going to go into business. Immediately we give you this certificate, what we expect is that you keep to those standards.” On his part, Toyin Lawani, certification project manager, NCAA, advised the new airline to embrace global best practices in its business. In his response, Emmanuel Iza, chief executive officer of Xejet, pledged to comply with safety and compliance standards stipulated by the NCAA. “I really appreciate all the efforts put into this. It has been a learning process for us at Xejet. We have done it only once, and I appreciate all the feedback,” Iza said. “It is seven years, two months and two days from the day I started the journey of Xejet and to the glory of God, today we have come to this milestone. I still cannot believe it.”