The plea bargain talks between Adedibu Ojerinde, former registrar of the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), and the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission (ICPC) have fallen through. The ICPC arraigned Ojerinde on July 6, 2021, in a suit marked: FHC/ABJ/CR/97/2021, on an 18-count charge bordering on alleged misappropriation of funds to the tune of N5.2 billion. The commission alleged that the former registrar committed multiple frauds while heading JAMB and the National Examination Council (NECO). Ojerinde pleaded not guilty to the allegations and was granted bail in the sum of N200 million. On Tuesday, Ojerinde, through his counsel, Ibrahim Ishyaku, had prayed the court for an adjournment to enable him to finalise a plea bargain arrangement with the ICPC. However, at the resumed court session on Wednesday, Ebenezer Sogunle, ICPC’s lawyer, told the court that the plea bargain talks failed. “My lord, I regret to inform the court that there has been no plea bargain agreement in this matter,” he said. “We have therefore resolved to proceed with the hearing. We have witnesses in court and ready to proceed.” Responding, Ishyaku said: “That is the position, my lord, and we are ready for trial.” Shortly after, the ICPC called its first witness, Peter Oyewole, who said he acted as Ojerinde’s personal lawyer at a point, during which he aided him to incorporate companies and purchase properties. He listed the companies as Oke-Afin Boys and Girls Hostel Limited, Sapati International School, Doyin Ogbohi Petroleum Limited, Cheng Marbles Limited, Standout Institute Limited,  Trillion Learning Centre Limited, Grace Petroleum Limited and Ifelodun Communications Limited. Certificates of Incorporation for the companies and title documents of three buildings allegedly purchased for the defendant in Abuja were tendered and admitted as exhibits. The witness said while Ojerinde was registered as director in two of the companies, he used the names of his associates as directors in the other companies. Oyewole added that he never met any of the associates at the time he registered their names with the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC). Some of the names used to register the companies include Ojerinde Dayo, Ojerinde Olumide, Awodayo Habib, Adeyanju Gbenga, Ojerinde Olutoyin, Ojerinde Akanbi, Ojerinde Adedayo, Olayiwola Ayanwale, Ibrahim Danmusa, Ojerinde Dibu and Sanusi Alade Naj. Oyewole said the receipts obtained in the course of transactions for the defendant were received and acknowledged in writing by Olumide Ojerinde, the defendant’s son who is a serving member of the house of representatives. He also tendered 12 letters exchanged between him and the defendant as well as 17 photocopies of bank drafts issued for payment for the registration of the companies and the purchase of three buildings. The witness further told the court that Ojerinde acquired millions of shares at Osanta Micro-Finance Limited, in addition to being a director with the bank at the time he was JAMB registrar.