A group known as the Citizens Network for Peace and Development (CNPD) has asked President Muhammadu Buhari to support former President Goodluck Jonathan for presidency in 2023. Addressing a press conference in Abuja over the weekend, Okorie Raphael, CNPD national coordinator, said a Jonathan presidency will build on the achievements of the current administration. Raphael said the former president has always prioritised the interest of the country over anything. “For President Goodluck Jonathan he has shown that the interest of Nigeria comes first. This was demonstrated by his actions during and in the aftermath of the 2015 Elections, specifically the historic phone call he made to President Mohammadu Buhari. He has indeed proven to be a peacemaker and patriotic. He epitomises a true defender of democracy,” the coordinator said. “We need a leader who is a true democrat. A leader who is acceptable by all. One who appeals to the young and the old, the rich and the poor, the Muslim and the Christian, the Northerner and the Southerner. “A leader who is enlightened, respected and loved. A leader who is proactive, strong and principled. A leader who values the sanctity of human lives. A leader who fully understands the trappings of power and knows not to abuse the privilege. A leader who is tolerant and experienced. “We also call on former President Jonathan to once again avail himself to be of service to the country he loves so much! He should bear in mind the popular Latin saying; Vox populi, vox Dei! The voice of the people is the voice of God! This is a rescue mission you cannot refuse to lead sir “We call on none other than our father and incumbent President Muhammadu Buhari GCFR, who has done so much in his few years in office to throw his support behind the candidature of Goodluck Jonathan, should he accept to vie for the office of president.” Raphael said they are not particular about any party Jonathan can get a presidential ticket from. “For us, it does not matter which political party endorses Jonathan’s candidature. Our concern is for him to accept the call of millions of Nigerians to run for office is all that matters! We are ready to mobilize no less than 8 million Nigerians towards the 2023 polls,” he said. Jonathan is yet to declare his interest for the presidency. In 2020, governors of the All Progressives Congress (APC) held a private meeting with Jonathan over the possibility of joining the party and running for president.