Rasak Salinsile, factional chairman of the All Progressives Congress in Osun, has accused Gboyega Oyetola, the governor, of being behind the attack on the campaign office of Rauf Aregbesola, minister of interior. The Salinsile-led faction is backed by Aregbesola who is Oyetola’s predecessor. TheCable had reported how gunmen attacked Aregbesola’s campaign office on Thursday afternoon. The gunmen were said to have invaded the building — known as Oranmiyan House — shortly after some party members ended their meeting there. Listing similar attacks against members of the party, Salinsile accused Oyetola of being behind the attacks. He alleged that members of the party who are against Oyetola’s style of governance have been subjected to attacks at different times in the state. “The gunmen shot into the transformer that is very close to the building apparently with the intention to ignite a fire that could possibly raze the edifice down,” Salinsile said. “The canopies, which were used for the meeting that had just ended indeed caught fire and it took the efforts of those around the building and kind neighbor to put out the fire before more damage could be done. “Today’s attacks climaxed a litany of others on members of the APC who are opposed to the style of governance and party administration of Governor Gboyega Oyetola in the state. “On the 18th of November last year, a similar attack was carried out in the daylight when gunmen shot into the crowd of members at the same Oranmiyan House. To date, nothing has been heard of that incident. “Just on Tuesday, thugs were sent after party members in Ikirun during a Federal Constituency meeting. The police, rather than arrest the thugs that unleashed mayhem on elderly women and men, went from house to house of our leaders and members to arrest them in a midnight raid. “They were on Wednesday sent to Ilesa correctional centre. At this stage, all we can do is to alert the whole world to the fast descent into anarchy under the watch of Governor Oyetola and in particular, the devilish plot to mow down APC leaders and members who refuse to go along with him on his misadventure.”