At least 10 persons, including security operatives, have been killed following an attack which involved the use of an explosive in Galadima Kogo community in Niger state. TheCable understands that gunmen attacked the community and also planted a bomb in the area. Gunmen were said to have earlier attacked Gpekure, Makuba and Galapai communities on Sunday, killing eight people and abducting 13 others. Emmanuel Umar, Niger state commissioner for local government and chieftaincy affairs, confirmed the attacks in a telephone interview. “Both unfortunate attacks happened and unfortunately, we lost some of our men and a number of yet-to-be-identified civilian casualties,” the commissioner said. “We lost four of our security personnel who were in our security vehicle that ran on the bomb. “I and other security agencies are yet to get to the point where the explosion took place because we are waiting for the bomb experts to inform us of the safety of the areas before we can go there.” Wasiu Abiodun, spokesman of the Niger police command, also confirmed the Monday attack in a statement. “The Niger State Police Command wishes to confirm that on 21/02/2022 at about 0100hrs, armed bandits/terrorists attacked Galadima-Kogo village, Shiroro LGA killing about six persons and set some houses ablaze,” the statement reads. “However, joint tactical teams comprised of the Military, Police, NSCDC and Vigilantes were mobilised to the scene, and unfortunately while on their way, a truck with NSCDC personnel ran into an Improvised Explosive Devices (IED) planted by bandits/insurgents along the routes and exploded. “Consequently, as a result of the IED explosion, four NSCDC personnel lost their lives, while the driver sustained serious injuries and presently receiving treatment in a hospital, in Minna.” Abiodun added that Bala Kuryas, Niger commissioner of police, “has deployed the Police Explosive Ordinance Unit (EOD) to sweep the area with a view to defuse other IEDs that might have been planted in the area, while one of the notorious bandits/insurgents was apprehended and investigation is ongoing as the suspect is undergoing interrogation in Police custody”. In a statement, Abubakar Kokki, co-convener of Concerned Shiroro Youths of Niger State, said Galadima Kogo has been at the mercy of insurgents in recent times. “Barely three weeks after the infamous Galadima Kogo massacre, report emanating from the town is not palatable at all as terrorists in their large numbers are currently setting the whole town ablaze,” he said. “The hydraheaded, venomous, murderous and heartless terrorists heavily armed with assorted, sophisticated and dangerous weapons had earlier yesterday afternoon stormed a nearby Galape village where they abducted an unspecified number of people. “Thereafter, they proceeded to Galadima Kogo that is almost deserted and started burning houses while simultaneously shooting sporadically into the air.”