President Muhammadu Buhari has asked the European Union to make new trade deals and policies that will help stem economic migration from Africa to Europe. Buhari, who is currently in Brussels for the EU-AU summit, said irregular migration from Africa to the global north is draining Africa’s talent pool and creating political crises in Europe. In an op-ed piece published by Politico on Thursday on the summit, the president said the EU must “undo” its one-sided deals, and do more to create jobs for Africans in Africa. “The relationship between the EU and Africa must be rebalanced to power job creation. Unfortunately, today’s arrangements do just the opposite,” Buhari wrote. “Moving forward, it is clear what a new economic deal between our unions should entail: For Africa, it must offer a chance for a fundamental new economic deal. “For Europe, it must provide the chance to rid itself of a trade policy that quashes job-creation in Africa and hinders efforts to stem economic migration to Europe.” Explaining why Nigeria refused to sign Economic Partnership Agreements (EPAs) with Europe, Buhari said agricultural subsidies in Europe deliver another blow to African farmers by flooding the market with “artificially depreciated produce” which undermines competition. “For instance, subsidy-driven surpluses of European milk are powdered and sent to Africa, decimating its diary industry,” Buhari said. “It is a similar story when it comes to wheat and poultry production. Despite having the most underutilised arable land in the world, Africa remains a net food importer.” Buhari also said more than €50 billion is ploughed into keeping European food produce cheap, making it easy for the region to out-compete Africa, its main export market. “With its main export market distorted against them, African countries are deprived of foreign exchange, and investment in agriculture is stifled,” he added. The president said EPAs sometimes cause friction between the EU and African nations, which can slow the implementation of the Africa Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA). “Today, we meet as continents, and our trade relations should reflect that. Yet EPAs pitch the EU as one against regional groupings or individual countries in Africa, and the pursuit of these deals has the effect of creating a motley of various conditions and tariff regimes across the continent,” he said. “Pulling nations in different directions, this will slow the implementation of AfCFTA and undermine eventual efforts to attain a customs union.” According to him, African leaders need to speak with one voice and make better deals on the global stage.