Worgu Boms, former attorney-general of Rivers, says he never met with some members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) who claimed they met with him to devise how to ”pull down” the party in the state. Some members of the APC in Rivers had accused the Magnus Abe group of working against the interest of the party in the state. According to a statement issued on Friday, Tonte Amachree and Kelvin Obulo alleged that the group loyal to Abe, a former senator and chieftain of the party, is working with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to “pull down” the party in the state. The former loyalists to the Abe faction claimed the plan is to ensure that the APC is excluded from the ballot in the 2023 elections. “We are members of the All Progressives Congress in Rivers State. We have been loyal and active members of the Magnus Abe group,” the statement reads. “Last week Thursday, We were called by Bethel Oko-Jaja and Ben Horsefall who are known leaders of the Magnus Abe group in Opobo/Nkoro and Asari-Toru Local Government Areas respectively, to a meeting where we would sign an affidavit to join in the suit against the APC in Rivers State and its former Caretaker Chairman, Isaac Ogbobula. “The meeting was held at the house of Worgu Boms, a former Attorney General of Rivers State under the administration of former Governor, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi. “The meeting had elite members of the Magnus Abe group like Golden Ben-Chioma and Worgu Boms in attendance.” But Worgu said he never met with any of these people and that no meeting took place in his house. ”I never met with Desmond Akawo in my house or anywhere else for any political purposes or any purposes whatsoever. Needless to say, (it’s) a concoction,” he said. ”All the other names of persons alleged to have met with me, for the purpose of cajoling them to sign an affidavit, are names of persons I do not know and have never met.” Rotimi Amaechi, minister of transportation, and Abe had clashed over control of the Rivers APC apparatus. The tussle between the Amaechi and Abe-led factions led to the disqualification of the party from the 2019 governorship election in the state. However, last year, Amaechi’s faction triumphed as the supreme court affirmed the sack of Igo Aguma — a loyalist of Abe — as the caretaker committee chairman of Rivers APC.