Aviation workers have notified airlines of their withdrawal of air travel services from February 8 in protest against poor welfare and non-release of the agreed conditions of service (CoS). The unions are the National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE), Air Transport Services Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (ATSSSAN), Association of Nigeria Aviation Professionals (ANAP), Amalgamated Union of Public Corpòrations, Civil Service Technical and Recreational Services Employees (AUPCTRE). The unions said the federal government is yet to fulfil its promise to implement the minimum wage and consequential adjustment since 2019 and the conditions of service since 2013. In a statement jointly signed by the executives, the workers said all activities will be suspended until further notice. “As you are all aware, our Unions variously issued ultimatums to the Federal Ministry of Aviation and the six aviation agencies over the vexed issues of failure to release negotiated Conditions of Service of the Agencies since 2013 and non-implementation of Minimum Wage/Consequential Adjustment since 2019,” the statement reads. ” All the ultimatums expired January 31, 2021, without the demands being met in any form. “The meeting called by the Federal Ministry of Aviation on the same January 31, 2021, did not resolve the issues as there was no clear assurance from the Ministry/Managements’ delegation towards meeting our genuine demands. “In this circumstance, our Unions are left with no choice but to take the next obvious step. In this regard, all aviation workers are hereby directed to commence the total withdrawal of services from midnight of Tuesday, February 8, 2022, unless, and until, otherwise directed in this same manner.” The unions further advised aviation agencies to use the strike to drive down their demands and ensure its implementation. “May we advise the managements of FAAN, NCAA, NAMA, NIMET, AIB and NCAT, in conjunction with the Federal Ministry of Aviation to utilise the one week window so provided to avert this huge crisis by prevailing on the relevant government agencies to act jointly to ensure that our twin demands are met,” the statement adds. “All Conditions of service of NCAA, NAMA, FAAN, NiMet and any other aviation agency pending before the Ministry of Aviation, National Salaries, Incomes and Wages Commission, the Office of the Head of Service of the Federation, or any other organ of government or Management of the agencies must be released wholly for implementation with the effective date of the signing of the agreement between our Unions and the respective agencies. “By this notice, all airlines, ground handling, aviation security/logistics, inflight catering, and other aviation-related businesses, as well as the travelling and general public, are hereby notified that aviation services will be unavailable as from the given time until the issues are fully resolved.”