President Muhammadu Buhari has asked diplomats to stay within the limits of their profession as the country prepares for the 2023 elections. Buhari spoke on Thursday while receiving letters of credence from the ambassadors of Czech Republic, Spain Italy and Israel at the state house, Abuja. The ambassadors are Zdenek Krejci of Czech Republic, Stephano De Leo of Italy, Juan Ignacio of Spain, and Michael Shual Freeman of Israel. Speaking during the presentation of the letters, the president told the diplomats that they are assuming their responsibilities at a “very interesting political period”, and advised them to ensure that their activities do not go beyond professional duties. “You are assuming your diplomatic responsibilities in Nigeria at a very interesting political period as Nigeria’s national elections are due in early 2023,” Buhari said. “As you settle down in the face of these developments, it is my hope that you will also be guided by diplomatic practice, to ensure that your activities remain within the limits of your profession as you monitor the build-up to and the conduct of the general elections next year.” The president called for the support of the envoys in tackling rising global insecurity, the COVID pandemic, climate change, among other issues, adding that no country can effectively contain the aforementioned challenges alone. “We are living in unprecedented times and with so many uncertainties, especially with the outbreak of COVID-19, the rise in global insecurity and the devastation of our environments caused by climate change, among other existential threats to our collective peace, progress and shared values,” Buhari said. “Different factors that accounted for these challenges go beyond the abilities of any single country to effectively contain alone. “Matters of security have become the business of all the nations of the world to work closely together to build consensus in order to overcome these challenges. “For us in Nigeria, we continue to make steady progress despite the daunting challenges, especially in the areas of insecurity, fight against corruption, diversification of the economy, and our efforts in promoting good governance, among other aspirations.”