The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) says some individuals are plotting to paint the leadership of the Nigerian National Petroleum Commission (NNPC) in a bad light by embarking on a protest over the current fuel crisis. The student body commended the “pragmatic response” of the Kyari-led NNPC on the declaration of 24-hour loading and dispensing activities to curb the supply gap. NANS said this in a statement signed by Asefon Sunday, president and Adekitan Lukman on Wednesday. “The NANS is in receipt of credible intelligence that certain individuals who from the inception of the present management of the NNPC were unhappy and still smacking from the impressive deliverables of the Mele Kyari inspired leadership and reforms in the corporation have mobilised hire-for-CSOs to embark on protests to paint the NNPC leadership in a bad light,” the statement reads. The statement from NANS is coming less than 24 hours after the NNPC announced the commencement of operations in its depots and retail outlets to bring normalcy to fuel supply and distribution nationwide. Nigerians have been grappling with access to fuel which has lasted for days. The situation was a result of the importation of off-spec premium motor spirit PMS in the country. The situation provoked a stream of blame-trading and denials among the parties involved. While frowning at fuel disruption across the country occasioned by the importation of bad (PMS), NANS said Mele Kyari, group managing director of NNPC, had breathed a new life into the national oil company. According to the statement, Kyari has done away with the nearly five decades’ opacity, unprofitability and lack of focus that was the hallmark of the oil corporation in just two years. NANS recalled that Kyari, upon assumption of office, harped on transparency and accountability as the cardinal pillars of his management, which he did by the launch of the Transparency, Accountability and Performance Excellence (TAPE) initiative. “We as members NANs wish to urge the NNPC to be courageous and focused and work hard to clear the roads and find a means to compensate those whose cars may have been adversely affected,” the statement added.