Lagos State Drivers’ Institute (LASDRI) says it will expand the institute’s training centres to ensure safe motoring in Lagos. Afusat Tiamiyu, general manager of LASDRI, said the institute is making plans to expand by establishing more annexes to train and recertify more professional drivers. Tiamiyu disclosed while speaking on LASDRI’s strategy for 2022 and its achievements on a radio show tagged “Your Side Mirror” on Traffic Radio 96.1 on Friday. In 2021, the institute established five new annexes, bringing the total number of LASDRI’s operation centres to 10. She said the institute’s target is to reach as many professional drivers as possible and surpass all the previous training records. This, according to her, underscores the need for more annexes, especially for areas that are yet to have any LASDRI centre/annexe. “We will be engaging in lots of on-site training for drivers of both public and private organisations as well as commercial drivers,” she said. “We are well prepared and equipped this year to take the training to their doorstep. We will also be organising public enlightenment and advocacy campaign programmes at motor parks and garages across Lagos State. All these are to ensure that no driver is left behind in our recertification scheme.” She assured Lagosians that the institute will continue to plug into the transportation and traffic management agenda of the government. Tiamiyu appreciated the Lagos state government for the renovation and transformation of the LASDRI’s headquarters as well as the Ikeja centre of the institute through the Lagos State Infrastructure Assets Management Agency (LASIAMA). “I can authoritatively say that we now have a new LASDRI. Our Eye Screening Unit has received an upgrade, also all our simulators, seat-belt convincer and every other world-class training equipment are in perfect working condition. Our classrooms are now very conducive, likewise our environment generally and we have Mr Governor to thank for this highly commendable development,” she said. She admitted that the gesture increased the influx of drivers to the institute as the environment is now more conducive for learning. Tiamiyu advised all drivers who are yet to come for the annual exercise to avoid contravening the law.