The federal government says it has reinstated Emirates Airlines winter schedule with immediate effect. Emirates is the largest airline and one of two flag carriers of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) — the other is Etihad Airways. In December 2021, the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) reduced Emirates Airlines’ flight operations to Abuja airport from daily to once per week. The aviation authority had said despite granting Emirates airline winter flight schedule to operate 21 weekly passenger flights to Nigeria, the UAE General Civil Aviation Authority (GCAA) denied Air Peace equal rights to Sharjah international airport in UAE, ‘violating’ Bilateral Air Services Agreement. But the UAE’s GCAA blamed the airline for pulling out of Sharjah Airport and “so should not expect to retain its flight frequency there” — a claim Air Peace has denied. In a statement released on its Twitter page on Wednesday, NCAA said the new development is under the terms and conditions of BASA between the two countries. “Following the review and acceptance of the “Safety Decision 2021-02 Issue 24” as released by UAE General Civil Aviation Authority (GCAA) by the Federal Government, the minister of aviation has approved the reinstatement of Emirates Airlines Winter Schedule with immediate effect,” NCAA tweeted. “Consequently, Air Peace and Emirates Airlines are liberty to resume scheduled passenger flights between Nigeria and UAE under the terms and conditions of the Bilateral Air Services Agreement (BASA) between the two countries. “All parties must ensure strict compliance with the COVID-19 Travel Protocols of both countries.” In a letter seen by TheCable on Tuesday, the federal government had asked the authorities in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) to approve the request by Air Peace for the resumption of passenger flights. The letter was addressed to Saif Mohammed Al Suwaid, director-general (DG) of the UAE’s General Civil Aviation Authority (GCAA). Air Peace had requested a slot of three weekly flights from Nigeria to Sharjah Airport in UAE. If the request is granted by UAE authority, issues bordering on the BASA between Nigeria and the Arab nation will come to an end. 