Nigeria recorded 50 cases of COVID-19 on Sunday. Here are five updates about the pandemic this Monday. Africa COVID cases hit 11m A total of 11,104,160 COVID-19 cases have been confirmed in Africa. This is according to the latest update from the Africa Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC). The specialised healthcare agency of the African Union (AU) said the COVID-19 death toll across the continent stands at 246,584, while 10,254,788 patients have recovered. South Africa, Morocco, Tunisia, Libya and Ethiopia are said to be among the countries with the most cases on the continent. Queen Elizabeth tests positive for COVID-19 Queen Elizabeth II of England has tested positive for COVID-19. Buckingham Palace confirmed this in a statement on Sunday. According to the palace, the Queen is experiencing “mild cold-like symptoms” but will continue “light duties” at Windsor over the coming week. “She will continue to receive medical attention and will follow all the appropriate guidelines,” the palace said. US FDA planning to authorise second COVID booster shot, says report The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is looking at authorising a potential fourth dose of COVID-19 vaccine, the Wall Street Journal reports. According to the report, the FDA has been reviewing data to authorise a second booster dose of vaccines from Pfizer & BioNTech and Moderna. It said the planning is still in early stages and authorisation will depend on determinations as to whether the second booster should be authorised for all adults or particular age groups, and whether it should target the Omicron variant or be formulated differently. It added that no decision is final and that it could be necessary to make booster shots available earlier if a new variant appears. Australia reopens borders to international visitors Australia has reopened its international border for the first time in nearly two years. The country imposed some of the world’s strictest travel bans after shutting itself off in March 2020 owing to COVID-19. Australians were allowed to return from late last year, but most foreigners have had to wait. With the borders opened, fully vaccinated visitors do not need to quarantine, but unvaccinated travellers must do so in a hotel for up to 14 days at their own expense. More than 50 international flights are due to land on Monday. Travellers can enter all states except Western Australia, which remains closed until March 3. Nigeria records 50 infections The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has reported 50 COVID infections across the country. The agency in its update for February 20, said the new infections were recorded in four states and the federal capital territory (FCT). Below is a breakdown of the new infections by states: Imo-22 Lagos-14 Rivers-7 FCT-5 Delta-2 The NCDC said 168 persons were discharged after recovering from the infection. There were no fatalities on Sunday. The agency said the report includes 20 community recoveries from the FCT. Nigeria now has a total of 254,293 confirmed cases, 230,755 recoveries and 3,142 deaths.