The Lagos State Resident Registration Agency (LASRRA) has launched a smart multi-purpose identity card for residents of the state to be captured in its database. Speaking on Friday, Ibilola Kasunmu, general manager of LASRRA, said the project was introduced after an approval by the state executive council to reopen the resident registration during the first quarter of the year. The project, which is dubbed ‘LASRRA 2.0’ is expected to focus on six objectives: Identification of residents and maintaining a rich database; provision of data for social and welfare state intervention; issuance of multi-purpose smart cards to residents; improvement of efficiency in accessing LASG services; driving the smart city agenda of the state and creating opportunities for financial inclusion. Kasunmu said the smart ID card is a multi-application card that offers residents access to services ranging from social benefits such as financial inclusion, pension and insurance, payment and access to public transport, means of identification for students, among other functions. ‘‘The impact of technology on the global identification landscape includes making it cheaper and easier to identify people accurately, as well as access services quicker. With the LAG ID card, our children can have easier access to educational services from primary to secondary to tertiary institutions in the state,” she said. ‘‘It will also make access to healthcare services a lot easier. Lagos residents are all encouraged to take this opportunity to facilitate quicker access to services from the state government.” Ajibola Abari, head of registration, LASRRA, said the agency will partner with the private sector to ensure the smooth registration for residents. He said the 65 partners, who are structured into four categories, will procure equipment and coordinate enrollment stations in the state. Abari said 24 areas of the states have been assigned to partners, while five other areas, which are Apapa, Ajeromi/Ifelodun, Amuwo-Odofin, Badagry and Ojo are yet to be assigned.