The United Kingdom high commission in Nigeria has launched the ‘British high commissioner for a day’ competition in the country. In a statement on Wednesday, the high commission said the competition is to celebrate International Women’s Day which will be marked on March 8. The competition is for young Nigerian women between the ages of 18 and 23. According to the UK, the winner will be given an opportunity to work/shadow the British high commissioner for a day and will gain some insights into what it is like to be a leader. Applicants are expected to record and upload a one-minute video describing “what positive change they would like to see in the context of climate action and how they can contribute to making that change happen”? Applicants are to share their video on either Twitter, Facebook, or Instagram by tagging @UKinNigeria and using the hashtag #IWDNG. “To mark International Women’s Day on the 8th March 2022, and in the year of Her Majesty the Queen’s Platinum Jubilee, the British High Commission in Nigeria is offering Nigerian young women aged between 18 to 23 the opportunity to be High Commissioner for a day,” the statement reads. “The theme of this year’s International Women’s Day is ‘Equality today for a sustainable tomorrow’, which is why this competition is aimed at encouraging young women to become leaders and advocates for change.” Commenting on the competition, Catriona Laing, the British high commissioner, said: “I am delighted to launch the British High Commissioner for a Day competition. Improving gender equality and empowering women is one of our top priorities at the British High Commission. “We aim to empower young women from across Nigeria to lend their voices to global issues that would help build a more sustainable future for all. “l encourage young women aged between 18-23 years to get involved in this competition and look forward to hearing your amazing ideas to make an impact in the world.” The application closes by 23:59 WAT (11:59 pm) on Sunday, February 27, 2022.