Some aides of national assembly members have alleged that funds meant to pay their salaries and allowances have been diverted. The aides picketed the headquarters of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) on Monday. The legislative aides said the non-payment of their entitlements has turned them to “slaves”. They held placards that read: ‘NASS, Clerk & Leadership pay our 2019 Salary Arrears’ and ‘National Assembly Management, Pay Us Our Legitimate Entitlements’, among others. In a petition dated February 14 and addressed to Abdulrasheed Bawa, EFCC chairman, and Bolaji Owasanoye, ICPC chairman, the aides said they are also being owed duty tour allowance (DTA) and minimum wage arrears from January 2000. “The non-payment of these accumulated legitimate entitlements has turned legislative aides into legislative slaves,” they said in the petition signed by Zebis Kekung and Kingsley Ejekwu. “We have been pauperized to the extent that we are unable to meet our financial obligations like payment of school fees, hospital bills, house rents, debt serving, putting us into several embarrassing situations. “All avenues we employed in appealing to the consciences of the President of the Senate Senator (Dr.) Ahmad Lawan, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. ‘Femi Gbajabiamila and the Clerk of the National Assembly, Arch. Amos Ojo has proved abortive hence the last recourse to this petition. “It is instructive to note that legislative aides affairs are directly under the purview of the speaker. “We are therefore beseeching you to use your good office to investigate this criminal diversion of our budgeted legitimate entitlements, bring the culprits to book and ensure the prompt payment of the allowances and arrears to us.” The petition was also copied to the Department of State Services (DSS) and the inspector-general of police (IGP). In 2021, the aides staged more than two demonstrations over 20 months’ salary arrears owed to them.