Bola Tinubu, former governor of Lagos state, has congratulated Gboyega Oyetola, governor of Osun, on winning the All Progressives Congress (APC) gubernatorial ticket for the state. Oyetola is seeking a second term in office. The governor defeated Moshood Adeoti, an aspirant backed by Rauf Aregbesola, minister of interior, and Yusuf Lasun, a former deputy speaker of the house of representatives, to win the ticket on Saturday. In a congratulatory message on Monday, Tinubu, presidential aspirant, said Oyetola’s victory is a testament to his “sterling performance” in the state. “This resounding victory across the 332 wards in the state is an affirmation of the widely-acknowledged sterling performance of the governor in his first term. It is also an expression of the confidence our teeming party members in Osun have in his ability and capacity to propel the state to an even greater height in the second term,” he said. “This victory is truly earned. You deserve it, Your Excellency. Let me also congratulate the governor and all security officers deployed for the poll for creating the environment which enabled the direct primary election to be conducted in a peaceful atmosphere devoid of violence. “We thank the leadership of Osun APC for ensuring the success of the primary election and for effectively mobilising their members to participate fully in the electoral process. The party members also deserve praise for they not only conducted themselves in an orderly manner; they also ensured their choice was expressed freely, fairly and unreservedly. “Governor Oyetola submitted himself to the people and people-power has prevailed. His commitment to democracy, non-violent elections, nation-building, loyalty to party and party supremacy are particularly remarkable.” Tinubu also commended Lasun and Adeoti for exercising their democratic rights peacefully. “I must particularly give kudos to the Chairman of Osun State APC Primary Election Committee, Kwara State Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrasaq, and his team for an excellent job,” he said. “Now that he has been returned as the party’s candidate to contest for a second term, I enjoin Governor Oyetola to extend a hand of fellowship to those who vied for the ticket along with him. “He must endeavour to bring them within the party’s fold so that together we can go into the July 16 governorship election as a united family. This electoral victory is not only for him, it is also for APC and APC members in Osun.”