BY JOSHUA OPANIKE In the past weeks, the electioneering machinery took up some momentum yielding not-so-surprising moves and actions. The giant politicking corporation is coming to life after about four years of seeming dormancy. Many commentators have described the vital essence of the 2023 general election, and rightly so. This election would determine the continued survival of Africa’s largest county, its democracy, and its literal existence. The events in recent days were not unexpected. Politicians are going on ‘consultation’ travels, perineal accusations of past inappropriateness are filtering back into the media space. There are the newcomer’s ambitious statements and the occasional spice of humour. But the real action is yet to begin. The coming months would bring in so much drama heightened by media frenzy. So much dust would be raised over what will eventually be nothing. Behind the confusion would be men and women whose sole purpose is to milk the country dry of its resources and potential while the electorate remains distracted. Isn’t it appalling that everyone only seems to talk of which zone should present the president and isn’t bothered about the millions of children out of school? Or the thousands of women who die yearly, their only crime being that they are Nigerians and live there? The dominant events these days are the announcement of intentions by aspirants to contest for one electable office or the other. But so far, many of such declarations haven’t been inspiring. For an election that would determine if a substantial humanitarian crisis won’t arise from persistently excruciating economic and security situations, the players coming into view are not simply the best. Nigeria has been plagued with having, for many years, a recycled crop of leadership which, at best, can’t fully grasp the magnitude and urgency of our national problems. The mere idea that these people change the slogans and rebrand themselves every election cycle is insulting and disappointingly discouraging for the electorate. Of a truth, the system is in dire need of a better alternative, a movement that will resonate in the hearts of millions, something concrete and substantial. Heavens know that such candidates haven’t graced our political space in a long time. But those souls abound, even in the murky political area. It would be naïve to assume that a ‘non-politician’ would contest elections and miraculously sweep the votes. The art of contesting elections and winning them is a game that must be mastered, but it doesn’t mean that a master of politics can’t be the pilot of effective governance. In the past, candidates have emerged who have been convicted of having good prospects, but their ships never seem to leave the dock. These alternatives are already emerging, and many will appear over the coming months. But they must be willing to do the work. Sentiments and emotions could only go far; it is the number-crunching moves that make a difference in any election. This is an important matter that must be well addressed. This cycle must be adequately harnessed, and perhaps, we could get a fighting chance. Furthermore, talk of progressive change in the way things are and the emergence of a working system is an elusive idea to many Nigerians. The state of the electoral system is not without blame. Elections are still marked by irregularities, technical difficulties, and inadequacies. The lack of trust by the electorate could easily be understood, but it doesn’t justify such statistics as demonstrated in the last gubernatorial election in Anambra. Only 10 percent of the eligible voting population voted! The only thing such will attitude will accomplish is embolden unscrupulous politicians and ensure the sustenance of a corrupt system. Irrespective of how hopeless it is, the citizenry has to be interested and participate in the electoral system. Apathy won’t change a thing. All the 60 million registered voters who didn’t vote in the 2015 general election need a rethink. Over the years, many Nigerians have demonstrated excellence in various fields. And such feats can be replicated on the political scene. Everyone needs to be concerned and show it. The populace need not fan the embers of discord along tribal and religious lines sowed by selfish politicians. Discussions should be had; actual issues should be addressed. Listen to contestants, hear what they offer, and probe their resolve. Newcomers should face the powerhouses head-on. This will be hard, almost impossible. It is not a guarantee, but we must fight. At least we would be able to face our progenitors. And maybe, we may be lucky, and we’ll get the change we’ve always dreamed of. Joshua Opanike is a fourth-year medical student in south-west Nigeria.