A federal high court in Abuja has fixed March 10 for a definite hearing in a suit instituted by Mahdi Aliyu Gusau, deputy governor of Zamfara, seeking to stop his impeachment. Inyang Ekwo, the presiding judge, fixed the date after ordering parties in the suit to file all their processes ahead of the next hearing. Last Monday, the state house of assembly announced the service of an impeachment notice on the Zamfara deputy governor over alleged gross misconduct. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) had, however, warned Bello Matawalle, governor of Zamfara, and the state house of assembly against impeaching Gusau. At the proceedings on Monday, Emmanuel Ukala, counsel to Mahadi and the PDP, appealed to the judge to make a definite pronouncement on maintaining the status quo. Ukala also prayed the court to direct Mike Ozekhome, counsel to Matawalle, Nasiru Magarya, speaker of the house, and the chief judge of Zamfara, to give an undertaking for maintenance of status quo. But in his response, Ozekhome told the court that Ukala only served him the amended originating summons, the motion to revive the status quo, as well as a motion for an interlocutory injunction on February 11, 2022. He argued that by the rules of court, he was entitled to seven days each to respond to both motions and 30 days to respond to the amended originating summons. Ozekhome also argued that the status quo order granted in July 2021 had since expired after 14 days going by the rules of the court, and that the said maintenance of status quo order “was based on a mere letter of invitation sent to Mahadi to appear before the house to answer certain questions and not an order against impeachment”. Ruling on the matter, the judge held that the application for maintenance of status quo and the other processes were not ripe for hearing. The judge advised both lawyers to move their applications or grievances to the next adjournment date. Thereafter, the judge granted Ozekhome seven days each to respond to the two motions and 21 days to respond to the originating summons. He also granted Ukala time to file his responses. The matter was adjourned till March 10 for hearing of all pending applications.