Pat Utomi, professor of political economy, says Nigeria needs a new political movement “driven by ideas” ahead of the 2023 general election. Speaking in an interview on Sunday Politics, a Channels TV programme, Utomi said the new political movement which will be formed soon will be made up of renowned Nigerians, civil society organisations (CSOs) and labour unions. “There are these two juggernauts (APC and PDP) and there is a third one coming,” he said. “They are actually not two juggernauts but one people who call themselves different names. Now, we want to create another group that is more authentic, more focused on the people. This is the group that we are putting together. “The so-called major parties that exist currently are two sides to the same coin. Let us call that one-party, it is meant for personal wrangling. If you are tired of what is given in this group, move to the other group. “I think Nigerians have had enough of that. We need another real political movement driven by ideas. So, the conversation has been how to bring together a number of people to front what I call the ‘Coalition of the Willing and the Dispossessed’. “It is an amazing array of Nigerians. By the way, for the first time, civil societies are ready to be inside of the arena. They played as civil society in the past but civil society is coming in. Think of all the major leaders of the civil society, whether it is Femi Falana, Oby Ezekwesili — they are all part of this arrangement. “The labour as I told you, the NLC president made a full and total commitment that they would bring the labour movement into what we are founding. People like Dr Usman Bugaje, former Governor (of Kano State) Senator Rabiu Kwankwaso, and on and on. We are fully committed to this process.” In 2020, Utomi, Ghali Na’abba, former speaker of the house of representatives; Olisa Agbakoba, a prominent lawyer; Femi Falana, human rights lawyer; Oby Ezekwesili among other prominent Nigerians unveiled a political movement named National Consultative Front “aimed at driving reforms” in the country.