A bill seeking to compel landlords in the federal capital territory (FCT) to receive rent monthly has passed second reading at the senate. The bill was passed after Smart Adeyemi, senator representing Kogi west and sponsor of the proposed legislation, led a debate on it. While leading the debate on Tuesday, Adeyemi said if passed into law, the bill would make it easy for low income earners living in the nation’s capital to pay rent. The senator said the current yearly payment system has impoverished Nigerians living in the FCT. “In the FCT, landlords demand between one to three years advance rent. This automatically has a huge burden on the masses. Our economy has not fared better in supporting the advance payment. This tenancy system has continuously impoverished Nigerians,” he said. “Many residents of FCT are finding it difficult to cope with huge rent payments, therefore legislation must be made towards a better society. “This bill seeks to reduce advance payment for new tenants to three months, seeks to protect low income earners from any form of oppression, seeks to provide a window of legal action for any form of oppression and a safety net for landlords against any tenant. “This bill is targeted at making life meaningful for people who voted for all of us as lawmakers.” Contributing to the debate, Sabi Abdullahi, deputy whip of the senate, said the upper legislative chamber is doing the right thing by considering the bill. “Let me state that I support this bill, and I want to commend senator Smart Adeyemi for bringing this bill which will be one of the most people-centred bills,” Abdullahi said. “Many residents in the FCT are groaning under this difficult system where many people are expected to pay house rent in advance. I think we are doing the right thing if we look at the intent of this bill.” After the bill scaled second reading, Ovie Omo-Agege, deputy president of the senate, referred it to the committee on housing. The committee is expected to report back in four weeks. The bill was introduced in the upper legislative chamber in January.