Anyaobi Michael and Bola, his wife, have narrated how a fire at their home in Lagos killed four of their children. Aside from Esther, their daughter, four other children — Prayer, Trust in God, Jeremiah, and Ebube — died in a “mysterious” fire that gutted their house on June 25. Speaking with The Punch, Michael said he does not know what caused the fire that devastated their home. “On Saturday, June 25, 2022, I was with my wife and five children inside my apartment when NEPA brought light. I woke up to discover that they had brought light, then I switched over to NEPA and went back to bed. Around 1:30, I heard my son shouting ‘fire, fire’. Then I went outside the house and discovered a huge fire,” he said. “I started calling my neighbours. People came out to help us. Unfortunately, one of our sons, Jeremiah, died instantly in the fire. I brought my son, Prayer, out. I brought out my son, Trust in God, and my son, Ebube. They were already injured in the fire. I live in a room and parlour ‘self contain’ with my wife and five children. “When my neighbour [moved] out, I took his place, because my apartment was already tight for us. We took them to Ikorodu General Hospital. They did the little they could do and referred us to Gbagada General Hospital. “I don’t know what caused the fire. “Prayer is 18; he has taken SSCE. Trust is 15; Trust is planning to take the SSCE next year. Jeremiah is in SS1. Ebube is in primary 6.” On her part, Bola said the children died while her and her husband sought medical help for them. She said while the fire raged, their home still had electricity supply. “I don’t know who I offended that will want to do this; that will come and destroy my children — the children that I laboured for, then come and take all of them from me,” she said amid tears. “When the incident happened, the senior one, Prayer, shouted ‘Daddy, fire!’ “At the hospital, they were still responding and crying that they wanted water. But the nurses advised against that. At Ikeja, another child gave up. After that, another gave up. I had to call my pastor to take me away.”