Ibrahim Chafe Bello has been appointed the managing director and accountable manager of Caverton Helicopters Limited. The company said this on Thursday in a statement signed by Olabode Makanjuola, chief executive officer, Caverton Offshore Support Group. According to the statement, Bello’s appointment takes effect on July 1 2022. “Captain Ibrahim Bello has over 34 years of continuous aviation experience in various sectors. He started his aviation career with the Nigerian Air Force in 1987. He served with the Presidential Air Fleet, Abuja as an aircraft maintenance officer, rising to become the chief engineer of the Hawker and Gulfstream Fleets, respectively. He retired from the Nigerian Air Force in 2004 meritoriously with the rank of Squadron Leader. On retirement from the air force, he proceeded to Delta Connection Academy, Florida, USA, where he obtained his Fixed Wing CPL Multi / IR in 2004,” the statement reads. “Captain Ibrahim Bello joined Caverton Helicopters in September 2011 as an EC155 and AW139 pilot, and also served as a line training captain on both types. In June 2012, he was appointed the Base managing pilot, overseeing Port Harcourt Shell operations until he was appointed the Shell contract manager in August 2014. In September 2015, he was appointed the director of operations, which he held until his new appointment. “Captain Bello holds the NCAA Aircraft Maintenance License with various ratings and the ATPL Multi-Engine license from the FAA and NCAA. He holds a Bachelor of Science (Hons) degree from the Nigeria Defence Academy and is also an IATA-certified Dangerous Goods Instructor. He has earned various medals and awards from his military and civilian careers.” In addition, the company also approved the appointment of Rotimi Makanjuola as the Group chief operating officer (COO) and Lolade Abiola as executive director of training for Caverton Helicopters. Makanjuola will oversee the planning and implementation of business strategies for growth across the Group (marine and aviation). Prior to his appointment, Makanjuola was the managing director and accountable manager of Caverton Helicopters. He holds a BSc in Economics from the University of Bradford, UK and a master’s degree in Auditing and Management from City Business School London, UK. On the other hand, Abiola holds a BSc in Computer Science from Kings College, London, and an MSc in Air Transport Management from Cranfield University’s School of Aeronautical Engineering. She was formerly the chief operating officer for the Group and served as the executive director of strategy and safety innovation for Caverton Helicopters. She had also served in the office of the vice president of Nigeria as the technical advisor to the vice president on solar and rural access. She is fluent in Spanish and Arabic.