Joe Aribo, Super Eagles midfielder, has joined Southampton FC from Rangers FC on a four-year deal. The English Premier League (EPL) club announced the deal in a statement on Saturday. The Saints reportedly paid an initial £6 million with add-ons and the deal could ultimately be worth £10 million once Rangers’ sell-on clause is added. “Southampton Football Club is delighted to announce the signing of Joe Aribo from Rangers on a four-year deal,” the statement reads. “The 25-year-old has spent the last three seasons at Ibrox, scoring 26 goals in 149 appearances following his 2019 move from Charlton Athletic. “Aribo helped the Glasgow giants capture their first Scottish Premiership title in 10 years, also lifting the Scottish Cup, and was a runner-up in last season’s UEFA Europa League in which he scored in the final. “Born in London, he represents Nigeria on the international scene, earning 20 caps to date and scoring on each of his first two appearances for the Super Eagles against Ukraine and Brazil in 2019. “Known for his versatility, Aribo stands at 6ft tall and can operate anywhere across midfield, or as a forward.” Earlier, Aribo had penned a heartfelt farewell message to Rangers describing his time at the Ibrox stadium as “an amazing journey”. “It’s been an amazing journey being part of this special club. I hold Rangers FC very close to my heart as they gave me the opportunity to showcase my talent on a bigger stage,” he wrote. “Playing at Ibrox was a dream and I’m glad I got to experience it. I’m glad I was able to play a part in the historic 55 league winning season. I’d like to thank everyone associated with this great club for all you’ve done for me during my time here, you’ve always made me feel welcome and I’ve had your full support. “I’ve developed into an even better player, credit to the supporters who have always had my back and stayed patient during the tough times. We created a lot of memories together, memories that I will carry with me throughout the rest of my career. I wish the club nothing but the best for the future and  I’ll always be checking in.”