Femi Gbajabiamila, speaker of the house of representatives, has asked journalists to protect Nigeria’s democracy through reporting. Gbajabiamila spoke on Wednesday at the inauguration of the new executives of the house of representatives press corps and the launch of its maiden magazine titled: Green Sentinel. The speaker who was represented by his deputy, Idris Wase, said journalists should hold the government to account to promote good governance. “I urge you to use available opportunities of cross-checking your facts. Our doors are always wide open,” he said. “Nothing is done in secret because we believe in communication. Communication is power. Where you lack communication there would be gaps. “We believe you (journalists) can discharge your onerous functions. You have a role to improve society and you have been doing that but you should do more. “Nigeria should move forward and we shall collectively move the Nigeria project forward. Democracy is about teamwork and we must work together to protect those things that would promote the tenets of democracy and good governance in Nigeria. We must all work together for Nigeria to work.” In her remarks, Grace Ike, chairperson of the corps, said the event is “another milestone in our drive as parliamentary reporters to be responsive, responsible, engaging and keeping time for posterity”. She described the corps as being gender-sensitive for re-electing her for a second term. “Being here today is a testament to the can-do spirit in which the leadership of the house as exemplified by Femi Gbajabiamila as speaker has inculcated in us all for more than three years. “Our decision to embark on this publication is premised on the realisation that as a select few opportune to experience first hand the work of the peoples’ representatives to make good and enduring laws for our country as well as being sources of empowerment, we need to document these and behind-the-scenes moments. Though we are journalists, we are historians as we document most that happen for the generation to come.”