YIAGA Africa, a civil society organisation (CSO), has released a preliminary report on the ongoing Osun governorship election. The report was signed by Samson Itodo and Hussain Abdu, executive director and board chair of the CSO, respectively. YIAGA Africa commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for commencing the process on time, adding that the bimodal voter accreditation system (BVAS) “functioned optimally” in many polling units visited. “Early Opening of Polls: Yiaga Africa WTV observed the early arrival of polling officials and materials at polling units across the State. As of 7:30 am, Yiaga Africa WTV observers reported that INEC officials had arrived at 78% of polling units. By 8:30 am, 41% of polling units had commenced accreditation and voting. By 9:00am 89% of polling units had commenced accreditation and voting. This, however, increased to 96% by 9:30 am. This is consistent with Yiaga Africa’s observation findings in the 2018 elections, where 91% of polling units opened by 9:00 am,” the report reads. “Deployment and Functionality of the BVAS: Yiaga Africa observed the deployment of the BVAS across the polling units visited. At 23% of polling units, Yiaga Africa observed the deployment of 2 BVAS devices per polling unit. The vast majority of these polling units where 2 BVAS were present had more than 750 registered voters. Across most of the observed polling units, the BVAS functioned optimally. In 99% of polling units, the BVAS had zero records for the total number of accredited voters on the BVAS before the commencement of the process. “Deployment of polling officials: In those polling units where INEC officials and materials arrived, 93% of polling units had more than three polling officials present, and 61% had at least two female polling unit officials present. “Deployment of Party Agents: An Accord Party Agent was seen in 23% of polling units. All Progressives Congress (APC) party agents were seen at 99% of polling units, Labour Party (LP) polling agents were seen at 14% of polling units and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at 99% of polling units. “Deployment of Assistive Materials and Set up of Polling Unit: The Braille ballot guides were observed in 60% of polling units, the PWD poster was seen in 71% of polling units and PWD voter information and statistics were seen in 79% of polling units. “Access to polling units: In 29% of polling units, individuals had to climb steps to access the polling units, which made it difficult for persons with disability.” The CSO, however, raised concerns over voter inducement and lack of secrecy during voting. “Voter Inducement/Bribery: Yiaga Africa received reports of acts of vote buying perpetrated by agents of the APC and PDP in some polling units. For instance, PU 009, Akinlalu Commercial Grammar School, Ward 01 in Ife North. The party agents strategically positioned themselves by the voting cubicle to see how voters marked their ballots. In PU 003 Opp. Olomu Mosque in Osogbo, PDP party agents were seen handing out between N2000 and N5000 to induce voters. Also, in Disu Polling Unit 003, ward 7 in Orolu LGA, APC agents were seen distributing N4000 to voters who voted for the party while PDP party agents were seen distributing N2000 to induce voters,” the report reads. “Secrecy of the Ballots compromised: In Ward 11, Unit 3, Palace Town Hall (old post office Iree) in Boripe, Yiaga Africa observed voters showing how they mark their ballot papers to APC party agents before dropping them in the ballot box. “Intimidation of Voters: At Open Space-Under Tree, Ojude Oke, PU 010, Iragbiji Ward 4, Boripe LGA, thugs associated with the APC threatened to stab any voter who did not vote for the APC. “The voters however insisted on casting their votes for the candidate of their choice. Yiaga Africa also received a report from Ogbagba Village, Ward 11, Pu 013 of a thug/cultist affiliated with the PDP coming to disrupt the process.”