Rauf Aregbesola, minister of interior, has inaugurated the enhanced e-passport for Nigerians in the United States. According to a statement by Amos OKPU, public relations officer to the assistant comptroller of immigration service, the event was held at the Nigerian House in Washington DC. Speaking at the event, Aregbesola asked Nigerians in the US who are desirous of obtaining fresh passports or those for re-issue to visit the service portal via passport.immigration.gov.ng to apply and pay for the passport categories of their choice. He restated the federal government’s unwavering commitment to making the process as seamless as possible for eligible Nigerians, especially those in the diaspora. He said the decision to roll out the enhanced e-passport in the US is “very strategic” to meet the increasing demand for passports. Also speaking, Jere Idris, comptroller-general of immigration, said with the rollout, the service is optimistic that cases of delay in processing passports will be adequately addressed. He advised applicants to abide strictly by the application and processing guidelines and requirements as contained on the service’s application. “We expect applicants to turn in their requests in good time to allow for a smooth and successful service delivery,” Jere said. He added that applicants are expected to complete their forms online, make payment and book appointments for biometric enrollment and only visit the missions on their appointment dates. “This is expected to allow for planning, thereby reducing applicants’ waiting period and speed up the process among others in line with global best practice,” he said. Jere noted that as part of efforts to improve applicants’ experience in the process, the service had provided a status tracking system (track.immigration.gov.ng) where applicants who have applied and enrolled can conveniently track the status of their applications in the comfort of their homes and offices. He assured Nigerians who have applied and enrolled for the harmonized passport that concrete arrangements have been put in place to expedite the delivery of their passports within the shortest possible time. He noted that the stock to take care of the backlog has been provided and assured that applicants who left mailing envelopes will receive their passports soon.