The presidency says security operatives remain committed to ensuring the safe rescue of train passengers abducted in March. Several passengers were killed, while others were kidnapped after gunmen attacked a Kaduna-bound train on March 28. Some of the abducted passengers have been freed, while dozens of others are still in captivity. In a video which surfaced over the weekend, some of the captives were seen being flogged, while the passengers begged the government and the international community to come to their aid. Reacting to the video in a statement on Sunday, Garba Shehu, presidential spokesman, said President Muhammadu Buhari has done beyond expectations on supporting security operatives, and he expects results. He also said the use of violence by ‘terrorists” isn’t new, adding that security agencies are on top of the situation. “Terrorist activity using propaganda and the use of violence to force governments to accept or submit to political demands is not new all over world,” the statement reads. ‘The country’s security and defence forces are not clueless or helpless. They have their plans and ways of doing things which they will not display in the media. “The dilemmas in dealing with the specific case of train terrorists are manifold: punitive action like the popular call for carpet bombing of the known locations may assuage the desire of an angry public for revenge, but what about the hostages? They have committed no offence. All they did was to board a train. “It suffices to say that the security forces are not relenting. They are acutely aware of their duties, responsibilities and what the nation expects of them. Whenever they embark upon those actions, they expect that the public should provide them with the needed support. “Terrorism is a global scourge that must be fought by all actors – the military, the civilian population and the communication service providers. This is the only way safe havens of terrorists are eliminated in every part of the world. “To help the nation against ongoing situation, the media must increase their support for the fight against the exploitation of the internet and social media for terrorist purposes. “The Presidency, in the meantime, wishes to reassure the public that the President has done all, and even more than what is expected of him as Commander-in-Chief by way of morale, material and equipment support to the military and expects nothing short of good results in the immediate.”