The Nala Feminist Collective (NalaFEM) says women need leadership and support to be more involved in politics and governance. The call was made at the inaugural summit celebrating the organisation’s first anniversary on Friday at Sheraton, Abuja. NalaFEM is a Pan-African front of feminists with a mission to foster, enable and mobilise women and girls from Africa and the diaspora. The organisation’s council consists of 17 women leaders under the age of 40 who are the youngest ministers, parliamentarians, activists, and innovators across the world. Noting a lack of political will to bridge policies and implementation, Aya Chebbi, founder and first African Union (AU) envoy on youth, said the summit’s intent is to provide a space of advocacy, mentorship , solidarity and partnership. She called on stakeholders to support young girls to take part in political activities, adding that there are gaps in the system acting preventing young activists from maximising their potential. Fatima Kyari Mohammed, permanent observer of the AU to the United Nations (UN), said there is a recognition of gaps by the AU, however, a continuous advocacy by young activists is the only solution. “Whatever you do should be based on policies that exist. Now, where the opportunity exists, especially for civil societies, it is for them to take up those policies to make sure that they can implement and hold them, to the extent that you can, accountable. This is the only way,” he said. She advised against protests without a backup policy to avoid a ”waste of energy”. Contributing, Pauline Tallen, minister of women affairs and social development, said the ministry is currently addressing policy gaps, strengthening institutional capacity, promoting gender equitable attitudes and providing quality services to ensure social justice for victims of violence. She applauded NalaFEM’s efforts to include women as part of nation building and assured the organisation of the ministry’s support. Jaha Dukureh, a member of the council and founder of safe hands for girls, said the reason behind the low participation of young girls in political leadership is due to a lack of mentorship. She called on female political veterans to lead the way and create a path for younger girls in the field, adding that there can be no succession of females without concerned females. Lauding the collective’s efforts, Beatrice Eyong, UN women’s representative to Nigeria, said the inter-generational dialogue is an effort supported by the UN. “I am glad to see young women standing up to challenge the status quo. It shows that there is hope for Africa. Where we could not reach, we are assured that you will reach and know that the UN women are solidly behind you,” she said. Held under the theme, ”I am Nala”, the collective also launched a book with the same name as the theme — a compilation of seven stories by its council members with each chapter advocating for one of the sustainable development goals (SDGs).