Project Management Institute (PMI) says it will host 400 delegates and speakers for the 2022 edition of the Africa conference. The institute said this in a statement on Monday. The conference aims to discuss possible ways to optimise the delivery of Africa’s development and business transformation projects. The event will feature prolific speakers, including Furera Isma Jumare, director-general, Jigawa State Investment Promotion Agency; Florence Chikezie, founder, ReDahlia & Entrepreneurs.ng; Ayanda More, founder and chief executive officer, Apara Global Africa; and Ananth Natarajan, chief executive officer, Cybereum. The event, scheduled to hold from September 11 to 13, is themed “Sustainable growth for social good: Connecting ideas, people and projects”. In the statement, the company said the event is open to senior business executives and those involved in the project economy keen to learn how changemakers and project professionals in Africa are seizing the region’s incredible growth opportunities. PMI said the event comprises a dynamic mix of lively panel discussions, keynote interviews, in-depth peer-to-peer conversations, inspiring talks, and networking opportunities, adding that the Tony Elumelu Foundation will be hosting a ‘pop-up’ mentoring station. It added that the event will emphasise the importance of women, youth, and education in Africa’s sustainable growth trajectory and will cover a wide range of topics, from new ways of working in the Metaverse and pioneering NFT projects, to spotlights on Africa’s emerging music, film, and tech industries. “The world has undergone some seismic shifts over the past two years, and not one sector was left completely immune, including project management. The line-up of speakers reflects our view on how the profession will transform and how projects will be delivered across sectors that contribute majorly to the economy,”  the statement quoted George Asamani, business development lead, Africa, PMI, as saying. “Necessity is the mother of all invention and now innovation. We are thrilled that the Africa conference has grown in influence and is able to attract such an exceptional panel of speakers and at the same time drive the narrative around social good and sustainability forward. We look forward to sharing new learnings and perspectives with the PMI community as we look for ways to make ideas a reality.” Other delegates expected at the conference include; Joseph Cahill, chief customer officer, PMI; David Pilling, Africa editor, financial times; Henry Coco-Bassey, music NFT pioneer; Daneil Yu, founder & CEO, Wasoko; Chikezie Nwosu, CEO, waltersmith petroman Oil; Ebo Richardson, group director, Transformation & Enterprise Programmes, Equity Group; and Simi Nwogugu, CEO, JA Africa, among others. Project Management Institute (PMI) is a professional association for project management and the authority for a growing global community of millions of project professionals and individuals who use project management skills. Collectively, these professionals and “changemakers” consistently create better outcomes for businesses, communities and society worldwide.