Ali Ndume, lawmaker representing Borno south senatorial district, says he is “disappointed” in the response of leaders regarding the attack on a correctional facility in Kuje council area of the federal capital territory (FCT). Gunmen attacked the prison with explosives on Tuesday night, freeing hundreds of inmates — including “all Boko Haram suspects” Speaking on the attack in an interview with Channels Television on Thursday, the chairman, senate committee on army, said he is disappointed with the response of leaders on the attack, adding that it’s the responsibility of those who are in power to secure and protect the lives of the citizens. “Honestly we are in trouble. I’m worried. We should be talking about how to address this matter and what citizens should do, not for people to be speculating,” he said. “I’m really disappointed with the response of so many leaders. And it’s our responsibility; the responsibility of the government is the security and welfare of its citizens. “And you have leaders respond as if it’s a casual thing; as if it’s not their responsibility. It is our responsibility. I feel pained to be called a senator and I’m almost like helpless.” He added that President Muhammadu Buhari should do more on efforts to tackle insecurity. “A president, or whoever is responsible, is supposed to sit some people down and get results. Not just making statements. I said it before. When it comes to issues like this, it is the president himself that is supposed to be talking to Nigerians, not some adviser on press,” he said. “Religiously, or by the time you take responsibility and ask people to elect you as the president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, anything that happens to any Nigerian, God will hold you accountable. The president knows that. “This thing is getting out of hand. Even coming here now, you have to be looking left, right and centre. And this is Abuja. You can imagine in Abuja, people had the audacity to come and do things and get away with it.”