The Sierra Leone Football Association (SLFA) says it has begun a probe into two matches that ended 95-0 and 91-1 in the country’s second-tier league, describing the results as “impractical”. On Sunday, in the quest to gain promotion into Sierra Leone’s Premier League, Kahunla Rangers and Gulf FC scored a total of 186 goals to defeat their city rivals in the national playoffs. Both teams went into the matches on 32 points each and were separated only by goal difference. Kahunla steamrolled Lumbebu United 95-0 while Gulf FC whitewashed Koquima Lebanon 91-1, despite both games being just 2-0 and 7-1 respectively at halftime. However, in a tweet via its official Twitter handle on Monday, SLFA announced the annulment of the results of both matches. The federation also said it will launch an investigation over alleged match manipulations. It said that anyone found guilty of any wrongdoing will be punished according to the federation’s code of ethics. @SLFA_sl investigates impractical match results from two 1st-Division matches in the ongoing Eastern Regional Super 10 League. pic.twitter.com/UtsFBrQAdu — Sierra Leone Football Association (@SLFA_sl) July 4, 2022  “Following recent reports on two 1st- Division matches-Gulf FC vs. Koquima Lebanon and Lumbenbu United vs. Kahula Rangers- in the ongoing Eastern Regional Super 10 League which apparently produced impractical results of 91-1 and 0-95 respectively,” the statement read. “The Sierra Leone Football Association (SLFA) would like to inform the general public that it has opened an official investigation into the outcome of the said matches and the following are of interest: Eastern Region Football Association (ERFA). All Officials designated to officiate both matches (Gulf FC vs Koquima Lebanon FC & Kahuna Rangers FC vs Lumbebu United). Players and officials of Gulf FC, Koquima Lebanon FC, Kanunla Rangers FC and Lumbabu United FC. In compliance with FIFA and CAF rules against match manipulation or anything of the sort, SLFA maintains a zero-tolerance in same. “The general public is therefore assured that the said matter will be thoroughly investigated and anyone found culpable will face the full force of the law as prescribed in the SLFA code of ethics.”