The house of representatives has resolved to review the benefit and contribution of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) to Nigeria’s social and economic development. At Thursday’s plenary session, the lower legislative chamber mandated the committees on inter-parliamentary relations and ECOWAS parliament and foreign affairs to investigate Nigeria’s financial contribution to ECOWAS for the past 10 years. As part of the investigation, the committees will determine if the country’s financial contribution to ECOWAS is justifiable or not. The resolution was reached following the adoption of a motion of urgent public importance sponsored by Awaji-inombek Abiante from Rivers. Nigeria played a significant role in the creation of ECOWAS in 1975 which has its headquarters in Abuja, Nigeria’s capital. The sub-regional organisation’s mission is to foster interstate economic and political cooperation among the 15-member nations. While moving his motion, the Rivers legislator said Nigeria does not benefit “immensely” despite its more than $1.177 billion contribution to ECOWAS. “In 16 years, Nigeria has contributed more than $1.177billion to the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) as its community levy, and this is the highest contribution by any member state since inception,” he said. “Nigeria has immensely contributed to the ECOWAS- power supply to member states, medical interventions and peacekeeping efforts in member states including the Gambia, Mali, Sierra Leone, Guinea Bissau, Liberia among others. “ECOWAS ‘Vision 2050’, a new regional prospective frame of reference for the next thirty years proclaims that ECOWAS must become a community of people, by placing more emphasis on infrastructural development, integration, youths and women. The Vision 2050 if well implemented, will ensure a secure, stable and peaceful region; a region endowed with strong institutions that comply with the rule of law and fundamental freedoms, a fully integrated and prosperous region, a region mobilised for transformation, inclusive and sustainable development. “Despite Nigeria’s larger-than-life financial contributions to the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), the country and its citizens have not benefitted immensely. “There is a need to appraise the benefits and contributions of ECOWAS towards the Socio-economic development of Nigeria and Nigerians in the last ten years.” The motion was unanimously adopted when it was put to a voice vote by Femi Gbajabiamila, speaker of the house. The committees have six weeks to carry out the investigation and report back to the house for further legislative action.