Afeez Oyekan, a representative of the Nigerian Police Force in Oyo state, has asked Nigerians to be proactive in playing their parts in the security of lives and property in their communities. Oyekan also said that the community should first accept the police as part of the larger community and see them as friends and partners in progress. She said this at a two-day sensitisation conference, ‘You Matter in this Matter,’ organised by YouthHubAfrica and implemented by Onelife Initiative for Human Development in Oyo State. The program, which took place on June 1 and 2, was meant to teach participants about human rights violations and how to stop them. The 107 participants at the event were able to talk about how dangerous it is when law enforcement agencies violate people’s rights. Participants at the event On the second day, representatives of the police, the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), the Western Nigerian Security Network (Amotekun), the Vehicle Inspection Service (VIS), the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), and the Public Complaints Commission spoke to the participants about human rights violations. Educating the participants on the ethics of the Amotekun, Olayinka Adeyanju, Oyo state commandant of the network and a Rt. Col., stated that their operatives are not allowed to dabble in civil matters. He also said that they are not permitted to take bribes or solicit funds to carry out their duties. He added that in cases where an operative of the network is found culpable, they are usually dealt with. Adedeji Victor Temitope and Ojo Babatunde Williams, the NHRC representatives at the event, asked the participants to report cases of human rights violations to the NHRC in Oyo State. Some participants at the event Other law enforcement agencies present enlightened the participants on what they do and how to reach them to report cases. This project is implemented across the country by YouthHubAfrica with support from Onelife Initiative for Human Development, Cedar Seed Foundation and Foundation for Investigative Journalism (FIJ). This report was produced through the ‘You Matter in this Matter’ Project being implemented by YouthHubAfrica, Onelife Initiative, Cedar Seed Foundation and FIJ, with support from Voice Nigeria.