Pat Utomi, professor of political economy, says Nigerians are calling for a “third force” because the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have failed them. According to PUNCH, Utomi said this in a statement on Friday. He said the #EndSars experience stirred the youths to desire a change in narrative and that the Labour Party will oust the two parties in 2023. He added that the increased awareness and voter registration shows that providence has given Nigerians the opportunity to take back their country. “The youths of Nigeria stirred up by the #EndSARS experience, and the middle class coming out of the daze of being complicit by omission, are increasingly determined to rise to the occasion,” Utomi said. “They are also poised to present the counterfactual of decades of false narratives by some professional politicians of abuse and take their country back. In 2023 providence truly places before us life in the crush for a new order and death in continuing in the old ways of trusting in big men. “We in the third force, as part of the orientation of doing, over talking, have scheduled a retreat for all governorship candidates of the Labour Party on how to focus on how the environment can not only stop the depletion of the assets of our communities but be a source of massive job creation and a transforming Green economy initiative.” Utomi, who also mentioned some of the plans of the Labour Party to redeem Nigeria, said the party intends to deploy technology at polling units to guard the votes of Nigerians in 2023. “The second part will focus on reprogramming Local Government Areas from political organisations to Economic agencies converting local governments into accelerators of local factor endowments in erecting value chains that drive a return to production from conspicuous consumption and obsession with sharing revenues,” he added. “The Tsunami of the movement unleashed by Nigerians desiring an end to a government that performs so poorly on most fronts because it lacks capacity and commitment has provided the opportunity for National renewal that we are willing to deploy strategy unseen in Nigerian politics to rescue the polity and save the nation. “The broad coalition of women, youth, professionals and the intellectuals which have adopted the leadership of the Labour Party and Peter Obi is serving notice that in addition to its agents which will number up to 15 in each polling booth in the country, it will use technology to guard the votes of Nigerians in 2023.”