Poju Oyemade, senior pastor of Covenant Christian Centre, is currently under fire from supporters of Peter Obi, presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), over his social media post. Oyemade is the host of The Platform which brings together resource persons to discuss matters affecting the nation. Obi was a frequent feature on The Platform. On Thursday, Oyemade in now deleted tweets, said youths must not waste their enthusiasm on a “poorly planned project”. “Faith is not just blind belief or hoping for a miracle. Faith sees. Faith has her eyes opened and possesses the evidence upon which it builds its belief. Faith prepares long, sometimes for years just as Joseph did for the years of famine. Faith counts the cost before embarking,” he wrote. “Without having real evidence upon which you are acting nor preparation for the task, recognising real obstacles that lie ahead and making concrete plans, one is just being delusional about the outcome. The enthusiasm of the youth must not be wasted on poorly planned projects. “Noah spent months/years planning for the flood & he was operating in faith. Jesus said no man goes to battle without taking stock first nor lays the foundation of a tower without counting the cost first lest he will be mocked. Our faith is intelligent it doesn’t live in denial.” Although the clergyman did not mention any name, the tweets were seen as an attack on the youth movement of Obi, sparking a backlash and fierce criticism. A Twitter user, @spotlight_abby wrote: “Pastor Poju Oyemade thought that by throwing in FAITH, WORKS & PLAN into that tweet, he could bamboozle us? Apart from tweaking the meaning of FAITH to suit his narrative, he scored an own goal when he equated the massive support for Peter Obi to a “waste of youthful enthusiasm.” Pastor Poju Oyemade thought that by throwing in FAITH, WORKS & PLAN into that tweet, he could bamboozle us? Apart from tweaking the meaning of FAITH to suit his narrative, he scored an own goal when he equated the massive support for Peter Obi to a "waste of youthful enthusiasm." — Spotlight_Abby (@Spotlight_Abby) June 30, 2022  Another Twitter user wrote: “It’s either Pastor Poju Oyemade can’t read the room or he was sent on a fool’s ERRAND. Whichever one, he’s exposed himself. Deleting tweets like Kabir won’t save his reputation. The big masquerade has been unmasked by children.” It's either Pastor Poju Oyemade can't read the room or he was sent on a fool's ERRAND. Whichever one, he's exposed himself. Deleting tweets like Kabir won't save his reputation. The big masquerade has been unmasked by children — IKECHUKWU (@iykimo) June 30, 2022  Here are other reactions on Twitter: They sent Pastor Poju, the youths he tried to gaslight, didn’t buy in to his gimmicks, he deleted the tweet and their online emissaries are saying we “bullied him”. Nonsense! See, if u can’t join us, pls don’t “advise” us. We wan “waste” our votes for @PeterObi, e concern u?? — FS Yusuf (@FS_Yusuf_) July 1, 2022  Pastor Poju was called out for twisting the word of God. He deleted the misleading tweet. Now naysayers are attacking ObiDIENTS for spotting an obvious deception by a so-called Man of God, who supported Buhari is 2015. This is no 2015. Religious banditry will not be tolerated! — NEFERTITI (@firstladyship) July 1, 2022  People like Pastor Poju will never understand that people follow Peter Obi because they are tired and frustrated. We are grasping for a candidate that seems to understand our plight. If you stand with any candidate that is part of our problem, then, you are part of our problem. — Ozii Baba Anieto (@ozii_baba) July 1, 2022  Heard Pastor Poju tried to use the pulpit to denigrate Youths who support Peter Obi, calling them delusional. The clapback was swift and hot, Baba deleted the tweet. Someone who supported Buhari in 2015 trying to pontificate to others Pastorpreneours are part of the problem. — Uchenna #LekkiMassacre (@Demoore90210) July 1, 2022  “Pastor” Poju “bullied”? Nah! You guys don’t understand the meaning of the words you lots throw around. When you lie, you will be roundly called out. This is what happened to Poju. This is not 2015. Peter Obi supporters are not same as the failed PR team of GEJ. — Obianuju (@divineboy10) July 1, 2022  Pastor Poju and Mbaka supported Buhari in 2015, and are here now to canvas for Tinubu who is “Buhari pro max”. It makes me question what is wrong with this men. But then, it is democracy.  Inasmuch as there are those who support PO, there can be those who support BAT and AA. — Foundational Etherling (@Kryeation) July 1, 2022 