The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) says its officials arrested three persons for their alleged involvement in vote buying in Osun state. Voting at the Osun governorship election, which started earlier on Saturday, has ended and results are being announced at the collation centres for the LGAs. According to a statement by the ICPC, its officials were also attacked while trying to arrest one of the suspects in Ibokun LGA. The agency added that one of its officials was seriously injured during the attack, but no fatality was recorded. “Operatives of the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) on election monitoring duties have arrested 3 persons suspected of vote buying in the Osun State gubernatorial election,” the statement reads. “At Ife North & Central Local Government Councils, Osun East Senatorial District, precisely at Polling Unit 7, Iremo Ward IV, one Dapo Olayode (M) was arrested by one of the Commission’s teams. Olayode was arrested with a list containing the names of voters while an Android phone was also collected from him. “At Egbedore Local Government, Osun West Senatorial District, precisely in Polling Unit 003, Ward 10, Osunbukola Junction, Kamorudeen Nafisat (F) and Ojuade Musbau Olaniyi (M) were arrested by another team for alleged vote buying. Items collected from the duo included one Android Phone and a notebook containing a list of names of voters. “A third team was attacked by a popular thug and his gang while attempting to effect the arrest of a vote buyer. The attack was at Polling Unit 1, Ward 7, opposite Polaris Bank, in front of Oba’s Palace, Esa-Oke, Ibokun Local Government Area. “The vote buyer was caught with a list containing names of 100 persons expecting to be paid N5000 each. The team leader sustained serious injury in the fracas that ensued, but the team was able to retrieve the book containing the list of 100 voters. “The statements of all the suspects are being taken under caution, and investigations are still ongoing.”