The Katsina police command says its operatives have arrested an inmate who escaped from the correctional facility in Kuje, federal capital territory (FCT). The Kuje correctional facility was attacked by gunmen on July 5, with over 500 inmates — including all Boko Haram suspects — said to have escaped. Since the incident, a few inmates have been recaptured in parts of the country, including in Ogun and Nasarawa. In a statement on Friday, Gambo Isah, Katsina police spokesman, said the inmate, identified as Kamala Abubakar, was arrested during a raid on hideouts in the state. “On 14/07/2022 at about 1800hrs, based on credible information, DPO Danmusa and team carried out raids at suspected criminal hideouts in Danmusa LGA and succeeded in arresting one Kamala Lawal Abubakar, aged 33yrs, of Unguwar Sale Quarters, Danmusa LGA, a suspected fugitive from Kuje prison, Abuja,” the statement reads. “In the course of investigation, suspect confessed to have escaped from Kuje Prison, Abuja, during the recent Kuje jailbreak. “Some quantity of dried leaves suspected to be Indian hemp was also recovered in his possession during police search. “Suspect will be handed over to Nigerian Correctional Service for further necessary action.” Isah added that the command also arrested two persons over their alleged involvement in robbery in the state. “On 05/07/2022, at about 03400hrs, the Command succeeded in busting a notorious syndicate of armed robbers terrorising Katsina metropolitan area and its environs,” he said. “Nemesis caught up with the duo of one Abdulrazak Isyaku, ‘M’, aged 25yrs, and (2) Muhammad Abubakar, ‘M’, aged 18yrs, both of Kambarawa, notorious armed robbers, who specialise in breaking into dwelling houses in Katsina and committing armed robbery at night. “Suspects were apprehended based on credible intelligence at Kambarawa Quarters, Katsina, and in the course of investigation, two stolen motorcycles — one Motobi, ash in colour, unregistered, and Hijoe, red in colour, with registration number KTN 89 QN — were recovered in their possessions. “Suspects confessed to the commission of several armed robbery attacks in the state and mentioned one Muhammed Lalo, ‘M’, now at large, as their accomplice. Investigation is ongoing.”