The Elcrest Exploration and Production Nigeria Limited says it has presented various relief items to communities in Gbetiokun, Delta, to ameliorate effects of an oil spill from MT Harcourt. MT Harcourt is a mother vessel used by the joint venture (JV) to store produced crude oil before export. In a statement issued on Monday, the company said the donations, which were a combination of cash and materials, formed part of its social citizenship covenant with host communities. It added that the distribution was in collaboration with the Nigeria Petroleum Development Company (NPDC), operator of the OML 40 JV. Ewoma Agba, Elcrest’s community relations coordinator, explained that the donation was consistent with the company’s corporate social responsibility commitment to positively impacting host communities and the environment. “We have noticed with uttermost dismay the impact the spillage brought to Gbetiokun. The Joint Venture, being a reputable organisation, is responsible and responsive to the plights of the community where it operates,” Agba said. He expressed the company’s empathy towards communities’ plights, confirming that the oil spill affected vegetation and surface water which are the major source of their livelihood. Agba charged the community to be resilient and ensure the distribution of the relief materials to those in dire need, adding that the JV would monitor the exercise. Responding on behalf of the Berisibi community, Prince Stanley Ekwejunor-Etchie, public relations officer (PRO) of the community, appreciated Elcrest and the JV partners for alleviating the plights of the persons affected by oil spills. Ekwejunor-Etchie called on other corporate bodies and well-meaning individuals to emulate the kind gesture by supporting the affected communities. On his part, Bemigho Ebosa, Eghoro community’s PRO, lauded Elcrest’s representatives for ensuring the delivery of the materials. Ebosa appealed to the government at all levels, oil companies, and other relevant agencies to forestall a repeat of such occurrence, which threatened the lives and economic mainstay of the community. The statement added that Eniyan Henry Tonwe, chairman of the Ureju community, thanked the JV for the relief materials.