The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) has arraigned Edike Akpan, identified as a deputy commandant of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), over alleged N26,655,000 fraud. According to a statement by the agency on Friday, Akpan was arraigned before V.S. Gaba, presiding judge of the federal capital territory (FCT) high court, sitting in Kwali, Abuja. The NSCDC deputy commandant is said to be facing a 17-count charge over allegations on the use of a private real estate company — “Danemy Nig Ltd” — to defraud land subscribers. “The charge sheet revealed that the deputy commandant convinced many subscribers with the claim of being in partnership with NSCDC, to pay various sums of money for plots of land both in Karshi, Nasarawa State and Sabon Lugbe Extension, Airport Road, Abuja, which were never allocated to them,” the statement reads. “ICPC told the court that the offence, committed between 2010 and 2015, violated Sections 19 and 26(1) (c) of the Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Act, 2000 and was punishable under Section 19 of the same Act. “In one of the charges, Mr. Akpan was alleged to have conferred undue advantage on himself when he allegedly received N13,350,000 in 2011 from a subscriber, Mr. Igwe Onus Nwankwo, through his company Danemy Nig Ltd, as payments for 10 plots of land at Airport Road. “He was at various times alleged to have received N1,305,000 from Doctors Robert Okoro and Akuneme Marcel Ikwuoma, each, for the allocation of plots of land at the Defenders Family Estate Homes Scheme, Airport Road. “The NSCDC officer was also accused of receiving N2,610,000 from Mrs. Chidinma Obasi for two plots of land and N1,205,000 from Mr. Etuechere Martins, for a plot.” Akpan was said to have pleaded not guilty to the offence, while his lawyer asked the court to grant his client bail “on liberal terms”. John-Paul Okwor, counsel to ICPC, did not oppose the bail application, but prayed the court to “admit the accused to bail on reasonable terms that would ensure his attendance in court for trial”. The presiding judge granted the bail request and set the bail sum at N5 million, with two sureties in like sum. According to the court, one of the sureties must show proof of residing in his or her personal house. The judge also asked the defendant to submit his international passport to the court registrar, adding that while in the custody of the court, the passport could only be released for medical reasons. The case was, thereafter, adjourned till November 7 for commencement of trial. Meanwhile, in 2015, the NSCDC deputy commandant had lost a suit filed in the federal high court, seeking to declare an earlier publication declaring him wanted by the ICPC, as a breach of his rights to liberty. Ruling in favour of the ICPC at the time, the court said the anti-corruption agency proved that it “did everything humanly possible to invite the applicant” for questioning over a petition against him.