Bola Tinubu, presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has called on Nigerians to “stand against terror” and those “who want to break the peaceful order of society”. The APC presidential candidate spoke in a statement releaed on Friday in celebration of the Eid-el-Kabir festival. Tinubu’s statement comes days after gunmen attacked the correctional service facility in the federal capital territory (FCT) and freed over 500 inmates, including Boko Haram suspects. The Islamic State in West Africa Province (ISWAP) had claimed responsibility for the attack. Speaking on the spate of attacks in the country, Tinubu urged Nigerians to remain united in promoting peace and condemning violence. “Thus, as we celebrate Eid, let us use this moment to rededicate ourselves to greater adherence to the spiritually-enriching commands of Almighty Allah SWT,” the statement reads. “We must show the true spirit of Islam in our lives and not just on these special holidays. The holidays are given to us not merely as special moments to celebrate, but as kind reminders to strive as we must to become the people and nation we are meant to be. “We face stiff challenges as a nation. Most troubling is the spate of violent attacks on innocent Nigerians. We must take a stand against terror and injustice. These evils lie forever outside our faith. Those who perpetrate such inhumanity do so in opposition to Islam and all that it means. “To be true Muslims is to adhere to the principles of peace, tolerance, justice, and charity. Our faith asks us to stand against those perpetrating evil and visiting untold misery on others. And we must remain forever obedient to the kind and life-affirming principles of our faith. “Yes, there are those who seek to bring this nation and Islam into disrepute through their destructive and violent actions. They seek to pit brother against brother, neighbour against neighbour, and religion against religion. They want to break the peaceful order of society. But Allah has placed us here to build a better Nigeria by taking care and seeing all of its inhabitants as our brothers and sisters regardless of ethnicity, faith and region. This we shall do. And no amount of evil or terror from whatever quarter shall stop us from fulfilling what Allah has commanded us to do. “Thus, I ask you to continue to believe in the excellent nation Nigeria can be. Let us eschew violence and those who cause and sponsor it. Let us not forget the poor and vulnerable among us. Let us demonstrate brotherly concern and compassion and give succour to those unable to help themselves. “This Eid, we beseech Almighty Allah to protect the weak, feed the poor and give us the courage and wisdom to subdue and defeat those who would seek to hurt the innocent and impair this nation. “We pray for our gallant soldiers and other security agents who, daily, sacrifice themselves to confront violent evil. Let us also remember President Muhammadu Buhari, our governors and other leaders in our prayers that they might find the wisdom and fortitude to surmount the challenges facing this country that, together, we can enjoy the benefits of a better Nigeria. “We pray for a greater nation and society where the light of democracy, peace, prosperity and hope shines on and for all of us and the darkness of poverty, violence and hatred is forever banished. We pray that Nigeria shall be faithful and remain true to its great calling and destiny.”