Several posts on social media claim that Akinwunmi Ambode, former governor of Lagos state, has defected to the Labour Party (LP). According to the posts, the former governor intends to declare his 2023 governorship ambition on the party’s platform. BREAKING: Former Governor of Lagos State, Akinwunmi Ambode  Picks Labour Party Gubernatorial Ticket. — Nigeria Citizens (@FRNCitizens) July 7, 2022  Former Governor of Lagos State, Akinwumi Ambode dumps his boss Tinubu, Picks Labour Party Gubernatorial Ticket The Game Is Getting More Interesting.. pic.twitter.com/d2ztc8TDou — Adoba Wisdom Daniel (@DanielAdoba) July 7, 2022  On July 5, Leadership Scorecard, a news agency, also published the claim, with a statement allegedly from Ambode, urging youths to get their permanent voters cards, against the forthcoming elections. “The youths are coming. The power is in their hands. Go and get your Permanent Voters Card (PVC) ready. Your future is NOW,” the post read. On July 7, the discussion generated by the claim of Ambode’s defection was on the list of top 10 Twitter trends. Verification A social media search revealed that the statement attributed to Ambode in the viral claim, urging the youths to get their PVCs was posted on his Twitter page on February 1, 2022. We further searched his verified Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram accounts and could not find any notification of his defection from the All progressives Congress (APC) to the Labour Party (LP). Such a political move would have been reported by credible media platforms, but none of them reported it. TheCable reached out to Ambode’s executive assistant, and Julius Abure, the national chairman of the Labour Party, but they are yet to respond to calls and messages. We will update this report if they do. Premium Times spoke with Ifagbemi Awamaridi, Lagos state chairman of the Labour Party. He refuted claims that the former governor of Lagos has joined LP. “Ambode is still with the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) party. He’s a bona fide and committed APC member who will work for the success of the party’s candidate at the state and federal levels,” he said. Verdict The viral claim of Ambode’s defection to the Labour Party is false.