The Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) has partnered with the Association of Corporate Affairs Managers of Banks (ACAMB) to further project and protect the image of the banking sector in Nigeria. Ken Okpara, president and chairman, CIBN said this when the executive committee of the ACAMB paid him a courtesy visit in Lagos. Okpara said the partnership was necessary to further reposition and sanitise the banking industry as well as guard it against fraudsters who are tarnishing the names of deposit money banks (DMBs) in the country. According to him, it is high time bankers took the narrative of the developments in the industry by showcasing its strides and also reorienting the public on how to avoid fraudulent pitfalls in their daily banking transactions. The CIBN president also said the partnership will include the running of a specialised radio programme that will provide verified information and enlightenment to members of the public. Okpara said the proposed radio programme will be owned by all the banks, and used as a voice for continuous projection of their interests. “The need to showcase the positive strides and image of the banking industry and the re-orientation of the public on this is now paramount. We will have a forum to speak on and correct issues as they unfold through different avenues including radio programmes. With that, we will be able to provide information, enlightenment, happenings in the industry, financial inclusion, financial literacy, cybercrimes, frauds, etc to the general public,” Okpara said. “Going forward, we would explore the possibility of floating a Bankers’ Radio through the CIBN. This will provide continuous public enlightenment, banker-customer forum/platform, customers’ protection, consumer advocacy [and others].” Okpara further commended ACAMB for living up to its expectation of projecting the banking industry positively despite the challenges. He also said that the institute will be partnering ACAMB to host CIBN-ACAMB regular media engagement. According to him, the engagement will help cover issues ranging from bank charges, malpractices, humongous profits, and other issues of public interest. “ACAMB has been wonderful with the projection of the banking industry nationwide, and due to this, we will be partnering with ACAMB to host regular CIBN-ACAMB media engagement,” he said. “The media engagement will help cover all discussions on bank charges, malpractices, banks turnover components, contributions and other issues which are of concern to the people.” He implored ACAMB to continue to give their support to the institute as well as the banking sector in general, adding that  “there should be no demarketing because what affects one, affects all”. On his part, Rasheed Bolarinwa, ACAMB president, assured of the association’s strong commitment to the advancement of the institute and the banking sector at large. He also availed the CIBN president of the forthcoming 1st national stakeholders’ conference between the banking industry and organised private sector (OPS) slated for August 3. According to him, the conference is aimed at developing a synergy between the two critical sectors to rebound the national economy.