The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has hailed the ruling of the court of appeal validating the governorship primary that produced Ademola Adeleke as the candidate of the party in Osun. Dotun Babayemi, a governorship hopeful of the PDP, had filed a case before a federal high court in Osun, seeking to be declared as the party’s governorship candidate in Osun state. Two factions of the party had, on March 8, 2021, conducted separate governorship primaries featuring Adeleke and Babayemi. However, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) recognised the primary that elected Adeleke. In a judgment delivered on May 18, Nathaniel Ayo-Emmanuel, the judge of the federal high court, held that the primary which produced Babayemi is null and void. Dissatisfied with the ruling, Babayemi filed a suit at the court of appeal in Akure, challenging the judgment of the lower court and seeking to be declared as the PDP governorship candidate. The court of appeal, in its judgment on Wednesday, upheld the verdict of the high court and consequently dismissed Babayemi’s appeal. In a statement issued on Wednesday, Debo Ologunagba, PDP spokesperson, said the appeal court’s ruling showed that the primary which produced Adeleke is authentic. “The judgment is a firm confirmation that the Osun State governorship primary was transparently conducted by the Sen. Dr. Iyorchia Ayu-led National Working Committee (NWC) in strict compliance with the provisions of the PDP Constitution and Electoral Guidelines as provided by the Electoral Act and the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended),” the statement reads. “Our Party commends the Judiciary for its courage, adding that the judgment has further restored the confidence of Nigerians in our judicial system and the processes of the PDP.” The party added that Adeleke is determined to “institute a transparent, people-oriented and development-based government that will rebuild and revamp Osun State from the misrule of the All Progressives Congress (APC)”. Meanwhile, Adeleke is now the governor-elect of Osun, following his victory at the election held on July 16. He secured 403,371 votes to defeat Gboyega Oyetola of the All Progressives Congress (APC), who polled 375,027 votes. 