Paris Saint-Germain (PSG), French Ligue 1 champions, have announced the sacking of Mauricio Pochettino as coach. Pochettino, who joined the Paris-based club in January 2021, was sacked on Tuesday and swiftly replaced by Christophe Galtier. The 50-year-old Argentine coach spent only a full season at the Qatar-backed club. “Paris Saint-Germain confirm that Mauricio Pochettino has ended his role at the club,” a statement by PSG read. “The Argentine coach and his team joined the club in January 2021. A former captain of the Rouge & Bleus, Pochettino took charge of 84 competitive games. “Under his tenure, Paris Saint-Germain won the 2020 Trophée des Champions and the 2020/21 Coupe de France, as well as the club’s historic 10th Ligue 1 title last April. “The club would like to thank Mauricio Pochettino and his staff for their work and wish them the best for the future.” Pochettino won three trophies as coach but failed to clinch the UEFA Champions League (UCL) title for PSG. Galtier, the former Lille coach, signed a two-year contract that will see him lead PSG until at least June 2024. “Paris Saint-Germain is delighted to announce that Christophe Galtier has been appointed as first team head coach. The Frenchman has signed a contract for two seasons until 30th June 2024,” the statement added. “I am delighted to join Paris Saint-Germain,” Galtier stated during his unveiling. “I would like to thank the chairman Nasser Al-Khelaïfi, Luis Campos and the club for their confidence in me. I am fully aware of the responsibilities involved to coach this extraordinary team, which is one of the most competitive and spectacular squads in Europe. “I am delighted to work with all of these talented players as well as the top-level staff here at the club. We acknowledge everything that Paris Saint-Germain represents in French and international football. My focus is on ambition, hard work and making the most of the team’s potential. “I am delighted to become head coach of this team and to be on the bench at the magnificent Parc des Princes, a stadium that embodies a passion for football.”