Droupadi Murmu, first female to become governor of Jharkhand, has been elected as the 15th president of India. The election result, which was announced on Thursday, saw Murmu of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) — a coalition led by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which she belongs to — defeat Yashwant Sinha, who was selected as the joint candidate of opposition parties in India. Murmu, who is from Santhal, a scheduled tribe — scheduled tribes consist of disadvantaged communities in India — won over 60 percent of the votes. Ram Nath Kovind, who is currently president of India, will leave office on July 25. According to The Times of India, Murmu has served in various positions, including as minister, member of the legislative assembly (MLA), and councillor. The president-elect, a former teacher, is also said to be the youngest person to be elected as president in the country’s history. While Sinha, the opposition candidate, has conceded defeat and congratulated the former governor on her victory, Nongthombam Biren Singh, chief minister of Manipur in north-east India, described the election of Murmu as historic. “Heartiest congratulations to Smt Draupadi Murmu Ji on being elected as the President of India. For the first time in our history, a tribal woman has become the President of India. It is undoubtedly a historic day, especially for the North-East which has a large tribal population,” Singh wrote on his Facebook page. “In a year when the Nation is observing the #AzadiKaAmritMahotsav, we are immensely proud that the highest office of this land will be occupied by a self-made woman who belongs to a tribal community.” In a congratulatory message posted on Thursday, the India Community Digest described her as a person with “impeccable record”. “Congratulations to the first President of India from a tribal community. President elect Srimathi Draupadi Murmu’s rise due to her hard work and smarts is an inspiration to millions of Indians, especially girls from backward communities,” the post reads. “From a tribal community where even getting a primary education as a girl is difficult, she struggled her way to become a teacher, then an MLA, then a Governor and now President. All the while she has an impeccable and clean record as an able administrator.” Meanwhile, India has a prime minister and a president — the former is the chair of the council of ministers, while the latter, as the head of state, performs his/her functions in line with advice from the ministers. The president also makes appointments — which are usually based on recommendations from the prime minister.