Caleb Mutfwang, governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Plateau, says he will ensure better welfare for residents if he is elected governor. Mutfwang said this on Sunday at a reception organised by the Plateau community in Kaduna. He also promised to address insecurity, improve the economy, and ensure the provision of electricity to residents across the state. “Destiny has bestowed on me the opportunity to come into the space of leadership on the Plateau and this responsibility I am not taking it lightly. I want you to know that Plateau is in trouble. Just this week, one of our sons from Central Bank told me that as at today, Plateau has a debt burden of N220 billion, but by the grace of God, we will turn around the situation if elected,” he said. “We want to build an economy on the Plateau that is beyond oil revenue; that in the years to come we don’t need to be waiting for Abuja to pay salaries. We don’t need to wait for Abuja before we build infrastructure. “Plateau was the first state in Nigeria to generate electricity. We are going to ensure that Plateau becomes a seller of electricity and not a buyer. We will make sure that all the potentials for electricity in our state are revived and revamped and we will be able to generate revenue from that. “There is none of us who is seated here that has not been afflicted by one problem or the other. By the grace of God, when I become a governor, I will not be governor of burial ceremonies. We want to arrest that ugly situation. The killing of our people must stopped. Our people must not be displaced. “We will ensure that our people that have been displaced return to their legitimate homes. “We are coming in to lay a foundation for a future Plateau — a Plateau that will be a land of promise, a land of peace and prosperity for generations to come. We want to change the ugly story about Plateau in the last several years and turn it around. That is our desire and our passion. “If we have peace and we have electricity, the sky will be our limit and by the grace of God, I have been privileged to have sons and daughters of Plateau who have the intellectual capacity. We are going to create an enabling environment for them to come back home and contribute their quota. “I see leadership not as a monopoly of knowledge, but as a creator of the enabling environment for people to come and flourish and prosper.”