The Kaduna state chapter of the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) says the Muslim-Muslim ticket fielded by the All Progressives Congress (APC) showcases the country “in a bad light”. Bola Tinubu, APC presidential candidate, on July 10, announced Kashim Shettima, former governor of Borno, as his running mate. The unveiling of Shettima, who is a Muslim like Tinubu, has elicited mixed reactions from Nigerians, with Christian groups kicking against the decision. Some members of the APC have also resigned from the party over the development. In a statement issued on Wednesday, Emmanuel Bako, Kaduna state chairman of PFN, said the Muslim-Muslim ticket has the “potency” to further polarise the country. “Fellow compatriots, I am compelled to address a very crucial matter that has much to do with our corporate existence. It is also a responsibility we owe our children,” the statement reads. “I have noticed with great dismay the consistent disregard for our heterogeneous nature in Nigeria by our political players. This is done in the face of increasing weakness of the bond of unity. It is not only against the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, but against the plan of God. “The new trend of fielding party flagbearers with individuals from one faith is not consistent with our federal system. “It has the potency to polarise our beloved nation at this crucial moment that all true citizens are searching for unity. I wish to state that it is not acceptable. “It is obvious that the decision is taken to cover up for the failure of government and to also spite other religions. “The religious fault lines in the past seven years have been widened. The responsibility of all political parties at this moment should be on strengthening national integration and not otherwise. “Let’s unite and build a society on the basis of respect for everyone’s humanity. Both Muslims and Christians are affected by the economic hardships brought by poor leadership and no one should be deceived by this. “Therefore, I declare the Muslim-Muslim ticket unacceptable. We shall not let it stand because it showcases our great nation in a bad light.” The cleric added that 2023 should be an opportunity to open Nigeria “to real political civilisation”.