Rauf Aregbesola, minister of interior, says “appropriate actions” will be taken if complicity is established in the ongoing investigation into the attack on the correctional facility in Kuje. On Tuesday night, gunmen attacked the facility, which is located in the federal capital territory (FCT), and over 500 prisoners — including “all Boko Haram suspects” — reportedly escaped. Four inmates died in the incident, while an officer of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) was also killed. The Islamic State in West Africa Province (ISWAP) has reportedly claimed responsibility for the attack. Speaking on the incident in a statement issued on Thursday by Sola Fasure, his media adviser, Aregbesola said after the attack on a correctional facility in Oyo state in October 2021, steps were taken to improve security around correctional centres. He, however, added that the correctional facility formations have been directed to “fortify” centres across the country to prevent future invasions. “After the Abolongo, Oyo State, attack on a correctional facility, in October last year, it became apparent that a new form of attack for which our system was not prepared for had emerged. Our system was primed to prevent and foil internal disturbance and riots, not external attacks/invasion, since the facilities were usually built around police and military formations,” the statement reads. “The minister then directed that the NCoS urgently work with other security agencies to fortify all correctional centres in the country and insulate them against future attacks, among other measures introduced. “This was carried out, as well armed soldiers, police and Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) officers were drafted to our facilities nationwide, to secure them against further attacks. Several but unsuccessful attempts were made to attack our facilities since then, as the armed guards repelled them on each occasion. “We are working with the Ministry of Defence and the Office of the National Security Adviser as well as other intelligence and security agencies to ensure that the attackers and the escaped inmates are captured and returned to custody. As we speak, security personnel are combing the whole area, up to a distance of 100 kilometres radius, looking for them. All checkpoints nationwide have been put on alert. More than 400 of them have been brought in and more are still coming. “The Minister has directed that all correctional facilities in the country be fortified; that all personnel be vigilant and alert, to avoid recurrence. “The Minister has directed that full investigation into the incident be carried out and he should be briefed as soon as possible. If any complicity is established, the Minister has promised that appropriate actions would be taken.” Aregbesola also urged the public to report any suspicious occurrences or persons in their neighbourhoods, and asked medical personnel to “treat and then immediately report anyone with gunshot wounds to the law enforcement agency”.