President Muhammadu Buhari says Nigerians should be grateful to God, despite the country’s current challenges. According to a statement by Garba Shehu, presidential spokesperson, Buhari spoke on Saturday in Daura, his hometown, when he paid a visit to Abdulmumini Usman, Emir of Katsina. The president said his administration has been doing its “best” to address the country’s challenges since it was elected in 2015. “They say he who wants to serve should be ready for the responsibility of leadership. Three times I wanted this position (presidency) and three times I ended up at the supreme court. For that reason, in terms of experience, I have gathered a lot. I visited 774 local councils in 2003, 2007, 2011 and 2015,” the president was quoted as saying. “I feel privileged that Nigerians elected me in 2015. Since then, we have been doing our best to tackle the challenges, with God helping us. We are not alone. If only we knew what other countries in Africa are passing through, we will be grateful to God, and protect our country. Other African countries are passing through a lot. “As leaders, we are doing our best, and will keep doing our best to improve the situation. I am praying that the almighty God will give us more strength and wisdom to protect our people, and fulfil our promises of ensuring wellbeing. “I have heard all that the governor and emir have to say on what people expect from government. I will not add anything. I am the one receiving the orders. I will continue to do my best. “As I was going to Daura from Katsina, we had to use choppers, so I had a good view of some farms. May God continue to bless our efforts in farming. “We are still craving the understanding of all citizens. We are doing our best. We are praying that our efforts will translate into more good results. Nothing surpasses living in peace. “We are praying that God will give us the advantage of dealing with all those that trouble the country. We don’t know why they are doing what they are doing. We pray our people to show more understanding.” Speaking on the politics in the All Progressives Congress (APC), Buhari said he refrained from interfering with the process that produced Bola Tinubu as the presidential candidate because all hopefuls in the contest were competent. “When the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) signalled parties to elect their presidential candidates, we had 30 aspirants, mostly ministers in my cabinet and governors,’’ Buhari said. “I told each of the aspirants to go and do their best. One particular governor, in his wisdom, came to meet me and asked who they should vote for at the party convention, checking if I had a preferred candidate. “There was no need for interference, knowing the competence of all the aspirants. They went and elected Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and he picked his running mate, Sen. Kashim Ibrahim, for the 2023 elections. I am praying that we will have peaceful and successful elections.” In his remarks, the emir asked the president to focus on tackling the nation’s insecurity and improving on infrastructure.