President Muhammadu Buhari says he is aware of the difficulties Nigerians are facing over high cost of living and insecurity. He said this on Friday in his message to Nigerians to mark the Eid-el-Kabir celebration. The president is currently in Daura, his hometown in Katsina state, for the celebration. According to a statement by Garba Shehu, presidential spokesman, Buhari said efforts are ongoing to find solutions to the hardship faced by Nigerians. He also said his administration remains committed to improving security. “I won’t rest until I bring relief to Nigerians. I am quite aware of the difficulties people are facing and working to resolve them,” he was quoted as saying. The president’s comments come amid rising spate of attacks across the country — one of the latest being the Kuje prison invasion — as well as the increasing cost of food items, petrol scarcity in some areas, and diesel price hike. While congratulating the Muslim faithful on the celebration, he urged Nigerians to be be good representatives of their religious beliefs. “If we are putting the teachings of our religions into practice, most of the evils afflicting our society would have been solved,” he said. “Religion shouldn’t just be used as a mere badge of identity, but as a motivator for doing good for our country and humanity. “The exploitation of the people by traders and the stealing of public funds by civil servants and other holders of public trust is a reflection of the abandonment of the teachings of our religions. “Our society is a bundle of contradictions. People display external religiosity without fear of God; they make life difficult for others; money becomes their god; leaders abandon their oaths of office by taking money meant for the welfare of the people and divert it to their private pockets.” The president gave “special mention” to security operatives “fighting terror on many fronts and their families, as well as others held hostage and kept away from their families by wicked and heartless terrorists”. He also called on Muslims to “avoid association with violent extremist ideas that have wrongly given Islam a negative image or poor perception”. “We should show love and care to our neighbours and others while celebrating this spiritually important event in our lives,” he added.