The federal government says it is deploying digital technologies to enhance the country’s agricultural development in order to ensure food security in the country. Mohammad Abubakar, minister of agriculture and rural development, disclosed this on Monday in Abuja. Abubakar spoke while receiving the standard operating procedures (SOPs) documents from Ernest Umakhihe, the ministry’s permanent secretary. He said it had become imperative to adopt technology for more efficiency and productivity. “This is in a bid to key into a technology-driven work process and procedure according to best global practices,” Abubakar said. “To achieve a dynamic civil service, the government has considered it pertinent to have laid down operating standards, hence the adoption of SOPs, which would significantly bring about an effective system of service delivery not only in the ministry of agric but service-wide.” Abubakar said the document is also a guide for employee work process toward the full operationalisation of the enterprise content management (ECM) with the mandate to digitilise records and automation workflow in the ministry. The minister also commended the efforts of Folasade Esan, head of the civil service of the federation, and her team for the laudable reforms going on in the civil service. “I, therefore, urge all the respective directors, heads of departments, and their champions who are the owners of these documents, to ensure that the full operationalisation of the developed SOPs aligns with the ministry’s mandate,” he said. “As well as vision and thus leading to the transition of its work processes to meet the demand of an increasingly technology-driven world in accordance with civil service reforms.” In addition, Abubakar urged management and staff to embrace the initiative and take it seriously in their various tasks, as the SOPs are globally recognised documents that provide the step-by-step instructions compiled to assist all officers in the service to perform their operational tasks accurately and effectively. On his part, Umakhihe, who expressed delight over the development, said the SOPs would act as a complete guide for staff work processes. “It is also an aspect of the enterprise content management (ECM) with the mandate to digitalise ministry’s records and automate workflow to achieve the overall improvement in information sharing and collaboration across our agencies, institutes, and state offices as time goes on,” he said. “It is my fervent belief and hope that the implementation of SOPs will professionally boost the ministry’s output and encourage all staff to give their best to the service of the nation and the ministry in particular. “I am confident that the ministry would benefit greatly by reducing errors, increasing productivity and efficiency and also create a safe work environment through these guides produced to resolve issues and overcome obstacles.”