The Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) says Enoch Adeboye, its general overseer, will not endorse the presidential ambition of any candidate for the 2023 general election. The RCCG was reacting to online reports that Adeboye met Bola Tinubu, presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), over the weekend. The reports also claimed the clergyman is not opposed to the APC’s Muslim-Muslim ticket and that he is in support of the presidential bid of the former Lagos governor. But in a statement on Tuesday, RCCG described the report as false. While asking Nigerians to disregard the report, RCCG said legal action will be taken against any news outlet that purveys such false news in the future. “It has come to our notice that some news outlets are reporting that a meeting Between Pastor E.A. Adeboye, the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God Worldwide and the former Governor of Lagos State Mr Bola Ahmed Tinubu was held a few days back at the Redemption camp where our esteemed father in the Lord was said to have supported the preferred candidature of the party the former governor is a member of,” the statement reads. “This is to inform the general public that Pastor E.A. Adeboye is under the authority of God, the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), and as such will not speak on behalf of Christians on issues regarding policies. “Pastor E.A. Adeboye and the RCCG have not and will not endorse any candidate for the 2023 General elections in Nigeria.” In a tweet accompanying the statement, the RCCG also said no such meeting held between Adeboye and Tinubu on the latter’s presidential ambition. DISCLAIMER 
The General Overseer of The Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor E. A. Adeboye did not hold any closed door meeting with Mr Bola Tinubu for support of any sort. Pastor Adeboye did not and will not endorse any candidate for the 2023 election. Please be advised. pic.twitter.com/cylNPEbN4m — RCCG (@rccghq) July 19, 2022  