The Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC) says it will continue to collaborate with information technology (IT) organisations to support the nation’s non-oil export drive. Ezra Yakusak, executive director of NEPC, spoke on Friday at the unveiling of linkedyard.site, an online platform aimed at digitalising employment process, in Abuja. Yakusak, who was represented by Andy Ambikputen, deputy director, national export office, said the NEPC now completes the registration process of exporters within 24 hours through digitisation. “As the biggest economy in Africa with one of the largest populations of young people in the world, Nigeria is well-positioned to develop a strong economy which would have a transformational impact,” he said. “The growth of digital innovation and entrepreneurship is essential for the creation of an ecosystem for innovation-driven enterprises and MSMEs. “The council leveraging on this development has engaged the use of digitalisation in processing most of its activities with its customers. “With the utilisation of the internet and the application of online-based digital technologies, NEPC has been able to complete the registration process for exporter certificates within twenty-four hours. “In order to fast tract online marketing for the food sector and increase export capacity, the NEPC has trained a number of MSMEs to have their own digital identity by creating websites and having their e-mail addresses. “The council in the last one year, under the export expansion facility programme (EEFP), provided grants for technology startups in collaboration with the National Information Technology Development Authority (NITDA). “Some of these technology companies were part of the Nigerian exhibitor at the 2021 Intra Africa Trade Fair (IATF 2021) in Durban, South Africa. “Let me assure you that NEPC will continue to partner with any institution that is readily available to bring up innovation through IT and IT-enabled solutions in supporting the non-oil export drive of the country.” Yakusak also commended Yard (the IT firm behind the website) for its “digital innovation at providing solutions that are scalable, proven, secure, and easy to use and support business growth”. In his remarks, Anderson Idoko, chief executive officer (CEO) of Yard, said the website provides various features that users can explore and expand their opportunities. “Our discourse platform where people can interact, share contents such as pictures, videos and write up and also join based on communities of interest, will allow our users position for the level of opportunity they desire; build, learn and connect with other talents and industry mentors from across the globe,” he said. “Yard has created an enabling environment where users can build, network, and grow along their professional journey to make them more productive and successful. “Also inculcated is an e-learning platform, where talents can get professional certifications, career growth courses, and mentoring from professional instructors across the globe.”