Bassey Albert, senator representing Akwa Ibom north-east, has resigned his membership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In a letter addressed to his ward chairman in Ibiono Ibom LGA, the legislator said his decision to leave the party followed “extensive” consultation with his supporters. According to him, his aspiration to become governor of the state cannot be actualised on the party’s platform. “It is with the greatest sense of responsibility, purpose, and love for my people that I make bold this communication,” the letter reads. “I have been a loyal and committed member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for over 20 years and have through the platform of the party served our people, state, and nation diligently without any blemish, and I have by the grace of God contributed positively and impactfully to the growth and development of our dear country, state, and our people in general. “I believe as a lawmaker and a distinctive one at that must at all times advocate and pursue virtues and values that promote and sustain the effective adherence to the rule of law. “As you are aware, my aspiration to serve our dear state in the office of the Executive Governor is not personal or selfish but rather the collective ambition of our people, based on the principles of justice and equity, to achieve a better and prosperous Akwa Ibom State. “Therefore, after extensive consultation with my God, family, friends, supporters, and well-meaning believers in a just and equitable Akwa Ibom State across the world, it’s obvious that these collective yearnings and aspirations cannot be actualised under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). “Consequently, guided by the sentiments, concerns and worries of our people so expressed on the need to take immediate steps for the actualisation of their aspirations. “I am therefore compelled to resign my membership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) forthwith.” Albert was a governorship hopeful seeking the PDP ticket. But hours before the party’s primary election, he announced that he will not participate in the exercise. The senator attributed his decision to withdraw from the race to obedience to a court injunction relating to the ward congresses which produced the ad hoc delegates for the primary election. Some party members said to be loyal to Albert had filed a suit in a federal high court in Abuja, challenging the result of the PDP ad hoc delegates election held on April 30. According to the applicants, there were no ward congresses in the state, and the delegates’ list is compromised.