Peter Mbah, governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Enugu, says he will ensure the state produces oil if elected as governor in 2023. Mbah spoke on Wednesday while addressing PDP members and his supporters in Umulokpa, headquarters of Uzo Uwani LGA, Enugu. Enugu is not recognised as an oil-producing state, and as such, it does not benefit from the statutory allocation of the 13 percent derivation formula as enshrined in section 162, sub-section 2 of the Nigerian constitution. Mbah said he is committed to harnessing potentials in the LGA, such as agriculture, coastal bodies and mineral deposits, to drive development and create jobs for the youths. “We came here today with one primary objective, and that is to appreciate all of you for your unswerving support which you showed to me on the 25th day of May 2022 by giving me 100% votes at the PDP governorship primary,” he said. “We’ve come to express our profound gratitude and say, thank you. Since this visit is not intended to be used for campaign because it is not yet time, we shall come back once the ban is lifted for electioneering activities and tell you our programmes for this wonderful local government area. “We came to tell you that you have not made any mistake for voting for us. You made the right choice and we are grateful. We are, therefore, determined to exploit the assets in Uzo Uwani. I’m aware that Enugu state is not a landlocked state because of the coastal bodies found in Uzo Uwani. We are going to utilise it for the people of Uzo Uwani. “Enugu state is blessed with huge oil deposits and gas reserves because of Uzo Uwani. Through harnessing these resource endorsements, we are going to make Enugu state an oil-producing state. “We have inland waterways and we are going to develop our waterway transportation. Uzo Uwani is historical in many ways; both in terms of movement of goods and movement of persons, the local government plays a preeminent role in this country.” He described the LGA as a “dormant and sleeping giant”,  promising to reinvigorate its assets for an accelerated economic outlook.