BY RALPH OLUWADARE ‘It’s a breath of fresh air’. That’s his slogan. Dr. Abdul-Azeez Olajide Adediran popularly known as JANDOR has set his eyes on Alausa seat of government in 2023. His combination with the Nollywood Diva, Funke Akindele may be the masterstroke that will give the People’s Democratic Party its first Governor in 2023. It’s an open secret that PDP has been in limbo in Lagos since 1998 when it was founded. And despite its successes across the other states in Nigeria, Lagos has remained impregnable for the PDP. Will they upstage the apple cart? The JandorFunke phenomenon, seems to have posed a serious threat to the status quo in Lagos. Immediately, the news filtered out that Nollywood Diva, Mrs Olufunke Akindele will run on a joint ticket of the People’s Democratic Party, the whole place was agog. Initially, those who dismissed it as unfounded rumour seem to have changed tactics and latch on to another narrative that the PDP Governorship candidate is not serious about winning the governorship by choosing Funke Akindele as his running mate. This narrative may not be borne out of genuine love for the opposition PDP by those churning it out, but to diffuse a seemingly threat to oust the ruling All Progressives Congress in 2023. Jandor also was unequivocal when he spoke about the trajectory of his political ambition on Politics Today recently. He explained that when the movement—Lagos4Lagos started about 7 years ago, he was dismissed as rabble rouser. But undaunted, he continued. And immediately, he joined the People’s Democratic Party, he was not rated among the front runners for the governorship ticket. But, alas! He picked it even after the PDP has completed his congress without Jandor’s input, his grassroots support came handy during the governorship primaries, which he won. Before then, Jandor has visited some notable PDP stalwarts in the state with a message of “UNITED We Stand, Divided We Fall”, which eventually proved to be a masterstroke that endeared him to many. Before, the D-Day, most of the governorship aspirants have seen in him a great mobilizer and step down for him. Adetokunbo Pearse said that much when his visited Liberty Place, Jandor’s Campaign Headquarters to pledge his support and loyalty. He did not stop there. He equally appealed to other contenders then to support Jandor. Pearse speaking during the visit said of all the PDP aspirants in the state, Jandor was the most prepared. Jandor has treaded where Others feared. He has not mince words, that his entry into the Lagos political firmament was to challenge the status quo and put an end to politics of imposition or simply put, “ Baba Sope”. JandorFunke has shown selflessness and courage, more importantly by sacrificing their thriving career as young people to take on this daunting task of winning Lagos for the younger generation. At 44, the duo of Jandor and Funke has built their business from zero to the success it is today and have decided to sacrifice all for the good of their state. What could be more patriotic. When Jandor started seven years ago, he was dismissed, never given a chance at all…some of the saying then was that someone who hasn’t been a councillor before, now want to be a Governor, but today…it’s now a two horse race between Jandor, a breath of fresh air and the status-quo. Who knows, Jandor might just be a Governor in waiting. Same narrative I have seen on Funke’s choice as Jandor’s running mate,while some are dismissing her candidacy, some of us who understand the game are seeing a clearer departure from the norm and New Face of Lagos PDP with fresh energies and idea… If governance is about taking care of people’s welfare and being able to identify best resources to work with and deploy same, the Funke and Jandor who have been managing people for over a decade in their chosen business, built and nurture to grow till this moment may be better of the status-quo with no records of heading any business of theirs in the past before taking this position of Leadership. Again, for those who haven’t seen any value in this ticket ,let’s remind them of how JANDOR has taken over the grassroot politics of Lagos with Funke being a goddess in the cyberspace couple with her brand which seamlessly connect with both the grassroots, market women and younger generation on the cyberspace…and when she gets to speak with the elites, then the Lawyer in her will come to play. Speaking during her unveiling as Deputy Governorship candidate, Funke said it would afford her to do more what she has been doing to alleviate People’s suffering on a smaller scale now better as Deputy Governor. And if the mammoth crowd that defied the rain to witness the unveiling of Funke, Jandor’s political trajectory and unease that the joint ticket has created in the camp of the ruling party is anything to go by, JandorFunke ‘collabo’ may be the new kids on the block in the Lagos Government House Sooner than later. For some Lagos PDP who have refused to see anything good in Jandor’s emergence, and subsequently his choice of a running mate, the imminent danger would be their self-inflicted extinction in Lagos PDP as Jandor huge traction at the grassroots combined with Funke’s massive occultist followers-hip on the cyberspace, if properly harnessed, will form a massive and unprecedented canvassers on Election Day,and ultimately win for Lagos for the party. APC surely understands the game, hence their deliberate effort to de-market JandorFunke ticket.
indeed, Lagos needs a breath of fresh air. Oluwadare is a public analyst.