The Lagos state government says it has sacked Ishola Adeyemi, a customary court judge, for entering into a relationship with the wife of a complainant. Olayemi Ayeni, the complainant, had in a video posted in 2016, accused the judge of taking an interest in his wife and denying him access to his children after he filed a suit against his wife in 2014. He also accused the judge of impregnating his wife three months after dissolving their marriage. “I had an issue with my wife; she moved out of the house; she rented an apartment very close to my house,” he narrated at the time. “I put N5 million into her business to establish a school, Greatest Kiddies Foundation. So, the success of the business caused a problem in the family, I could not control her again. “So after 10 months, I took her to court, thinking that I’ll be able to resolve this matter through alternative dispute resolution. “The judge, Dr Ishola Azakiq Adeyeni, hurriedly dissolved my marriage and got that woman impregnated three months after the dissolution of the marriage. “The woman is now carrying nine months pregnancy for that man. What really pained me is that in the ruling, this man denied me access to my children — that I can only see the children at the school premises once in a week. The same children now are under his custody. He took over the business I established for that woman. He denied me access to my children. He impregnated the woman now and he still wants to send me to jail.” Ayeni had also alleged that he was arrested by police officers and spent two days in Kirikiri prison on the orders of Adeyemi. In a statement on Tuesday, Titilola Vivour-Adeniyi, executive secretary of the Lagos State Domestic and Sexual Violence Agency, said the judge has been sacked after proper investigation. “The attention of the state government has been drawn to a viral video circulating on the social media space wherein one Mr Olayemi Ayeni (the complainant) alleged that a former customary court member, Mr Ishola Razaki Adeyemi, abused his office by exhibiting unprofessional conduct in a customary court case involving the complainant and his wife and proceeded to snatch his wife and children from him,” the statement reads. “The matter which occurred between 2014/2015 was investigated by the Lagos State Judicial Service Commission. The findings of the investigation subsequently led to the termination of the appointment of the member of the customary court. “It was discovered that the viral video was posted by “Ogbongefriends” sometime in 2016. “Members of the public are informed that the Domestic and Sexual Violence Agency has attempted to reach out to “Ogbongefriends” through their various social media accounts, but unfortunately, their accounts have not been active since 2018. All efforts to reach out to the complainant have also been to no avail. “We, therefore, use this medium to encourage anyone with useful information about the complainant to please reach out via our social media handles – @dsvrt on Twitter or @dsva on Instagram or call 0813-796-0048.”