Many residents of Lagos were left stranded on Friday at various pick-up points as petrol scarcity continues to bite harder. The petrol scarcity, which has lingered for over two weeks, has negatively impacted transportation in the state — leaving commuters scrambling for few available buses. According to NAN, the situation is most distressing as activities for the 2022 Eid-el-Kabir celebration are in full swing. The long stretch of Iyana Oworo down to Lagos/Ibadan expressway and inner roads were partially blocked due to long queues of motorists waiting to buy fuel from the few filling stations dispensing in the area. Transport fares were also hiked for both intra-and inter-state commuting “under the guise of fuel scarcity” and the volume of people traveling to different destinations for the Sallah holidays. The fare from Iyana Oworo to Berger which was formerly between N200 and N300 was increased to N500, while from the popular 7up bus stop to Mowe, formerly N300, was increased to between N600 and N700. The inter-state commuting was not left out as transport fare from Lagos to neighbouring towns like Sagamu, Ijebu-Ode, which was formerly between N1,500 to N2,000 – from Berger – had been increased to N4,000. Hafiz Taofeek said the fuel and transportation situation is taking a toll on preparations for the Sallah celebrations, especially in terms of purchasing food items and movement from one location to another. He appealed to the government to proffer solutions to the situation. Olakunle, a veterinary doctor, said commuting on Friday was “terrible” while narrating his experience moving from Lagos to Asese, a neighbouring Ogun community. “My commuting experience today was terrible. I was expected to keep an appointment outside Lagos around Asese in Ogun state, and after spending three hours in the traffic, I had to turn back,” Olakunle said. “I had to call my client to inform him of my decision to turn back because I won’t be able to make it down for my next trip. “On my way back to Lagos, I spent another two hours in the traffic, now I am on my way to Akure for an engagement. “We need the intervention of government so that the Muslim faithfuls can enjoy the Sallah holidays.” Funmi Adegbola, another commuter, said almost all inner and access roads in Lagos were not immune to the traffic jam experienced on the major roads. “I had a terrible experience today; I left home around 1.30 pm. On getting to Anthony Village, there was a downpour which caused traffic jam due to flash floods,” Adegbola said. “It took about three hours to get to Otedola bridge from Anthony Village. Aside from the traffic, the bus fares were increased astronomically and I think this is not fair on us. “This hardship is getting to us because almost every essential item is on the high side. Things are very expensive now.” Femi Adeoya said Lagos had been hectic in recent days, adding that the situation needed government attention. “Government needs to bring sanity to Lagos because things are not working as they should; the transport system in Lagos has been a mono system,” Adeoya said. “Lagos is supposed to be a mega city as claimed, but it is turning into something else. Now, Lagos has been ranked as the second-worst city to live in the world. “The government should review the mass transit bus arrangement which is almost collapsing. Today many commuters have been left stranded at the Bus Stop. “In developed countries, their governments ensure they take charge of the city transportation, but Nigeria is yet to look in such direction.” Tunde Babalola said it was difficult for him to get a bus from Ikotun to Cele Bus Stop and when a bus finally showed up, it was a struggle to get into it. According to him, when he got to Cele, transiting from there to Oshodi was another hurdle and it took two hours of standing at the Bus Stop before he could get a bus to his destination. Sarah Ejiogu, a civil servant, said she had to get into four different buses before she reached Iganmu, her place of work. “Ordinarily, I get a straight bus from Ikeja to Costain but today, I had to keep breaking my journey because the buses were not available and I must be at work,” she said. “I took a bus from Ogba where I reside to Ikeja, another to Maryland, then to Ojuelegba and got another to Costain. “The drivers complained of unavailability of fuel and long queuing time at the filling stations. “It is becoming unbearable. Government should please help the situation.”