Sada Soli, a member of the house of representatives, has called on his colleagues to ensure a proper examination of the water resources bill. The legislator said this while making a point of “personal explanation” on the floor of the house on Thursday. The controversial bill was reintroduced in the house of representatives in June by Soli, who is from Katsina state. Several Nigerians have rejected the proposed legislation, which aims to provide a regulatory framework for the country’s water resources. The bill dates back to the eighth national assembly when it was first sent to the parliament by the executive. Since its reintroduction in the national assembly in June, Nigerians, including civil society organisations (CSO), have kicked against it and have asked lawmakers to suspend legislative work on the bill. Speaking on Thursday, Soli, who is the chairman of the house committee on water resources, said copies of the bill will be made available to members to enable them to examine the bill’s clauses. “I’m calling on the clerk to please ensure that bill goes to every member because of the importance of the bill and I call on my colleagues to please kindly take time and read that bill, subject it to a third party. You have time now to subject that bill back home during our holidays,” he said. “We will not take that bill in a haste. We will allow every member to look at that bill from clause one to the 154 clauses. Honestly and sincerely, I am talking on my onus, given the responsibility as the chairman of the committee on water resources. “I will not be a party to any shenanigans of any legislation that will impact negatively on any community in our country.” Soli’s comment comes amid the demand by the Ijaw National Congress (INC) that the national assembly should reject the bill. Speaking on Wednesday, when he led members of the group to visit lawmakers from Ijaw nation in the house of representatives, Benjamin Okaba, INC president, said the bill seeks to transfer what “rightfully belongs” to the states to the federal government. “The re-introduction of this bill in the twilight days of the Buhari-led administration and at such a critical time in the history of the nation, with the various recurrent challenges calls for circumspect on the part of well-meaning Nigerians, and indeed the Ijaw nation, in the consideration of the bill, which appears to be targeted at controlling the coastal environment of the Ijaw nation,” he said. On his part, Awaji-Inombek Abiante from Rivers, who spoke on behalf of his colleagues, said they will continue to defend the interest of the people. “We urge you to build synergy with other ethnic nationalities in the national assembly so that we can work together as a team,” he added.