Peter Obi, the presidential candidate of Labour Party (LP), has distanced himself from the viral picture of praying mats with his campaign poster printed on them. The image of the praying mats circulated across social media recently and it generated mixed reactions. While some supporters of Obi believed the gesture holds no implication, others criticised the use of images on items of worship by Muslims. Reacting to the development in a tweet on his verified Twitter handle on Friday, Obi declared his “deep respect” for the Muslim faith. The former Anambra governor disowned the campaign tactic, adding that it is not from his team. Obi said the concept was initiated by a support group, describing it as “misguided”. “The inclusion of my picture on the praying mat by a support group was misguided, even with the best of intentions,” the tweet reads. “It didn’t emanate from my campaign team. I have deep respect for the Muslim faith and indeed, for every other religion. We will never mock any faith, ethnicity or gender. We are one Nigeria.” The inclusion of my picture on the praying mat by a support group was misguided, even with the best of intentions. It didn't emanate from my campaign team. I have deep respect for the Muslim faith and indeed, for every other religion. — Peter Obi (@PeterObi) July 1, 2022  Reacting to the development, Reno Omokri, former special adviser to ex-president Goodluck Jonathan, said it’s important for all Muslims and Christians to read the Quran and Bible in order to understand the dictates of both faiths. “I have read the Quran. This is wrong. Islam does not tolerate images of humans or animals in mosques,” he tweeted. This is why I say Christians should compulsorily study IRK and Muslims should do same with CRK. I have read the Quran. This is wrong. Islam does not tolerate images of humans or animals in mosques. Tinubu tried it in Mecca and the Saudis arrested his campaigners!#TableShaker pic.twitter.com/pl8s0367XM — Reno Omokri (@renoomokri) June 30, 2022  