The federal government has inaugurated a white paper committee to review ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) created since 2014. Boss Mustapha, secretary to the government of the federation (SGF), inaugurated the committee on Friday in Abuja. He also asked the committee to submit its report in six weeks so that implementation can begin after it has been approved by the federal executive council (FEC). In November 2021, the federal government inaugurated two sub-committees chaired by former heads of service of the federation — Bukar Aji, Amal Pepple and Oladapo Afolabi – on the implementation of the report of the Stephen Oronsaye-led presidential committee. The two sub-committees were tasked with the implementation of a whitepaper on the restructuring of ministries, departments and agencies to reduce the cost of governance. Mustapha said the setting up of the committee is part of the federal government’s efforts to address cost of governance which has become an issue of concern especially with the current revenue challenges in the country. “One of such efforts was the constitution of the committee on the restructuring and rationalisation of federal government parastatals, commissions and agencies on the 18th of August, 2011, chaired by the former head of service, Mr. Steve Oronsaye,” he said. “The committee submitted its report on the 16th of April, 2012, with various recommendations, such as an abolition, reduction, merger and reversion of some of the agencies to departments in ministries. Subsequently, the white paper on the report was issued in March of 2014, followed by an implementation committee that was inaugurated in May of 2014. “However, the white paper rejecting most of the recommendations merely noted an equally greater number. Again, even those accepted were not implemented. “Distinguished ladies and gentlemen, you will all agree with me that the inability to implement the report of the committee on restructuring and rationalisation of federal government parastatals, agencies and commissions is costing the government highly. This cost grows higher, and the situation is further worsened by the fact that new agencies are being created on a daily basis. “In an effort to address this challenge, the federal government, in November 2021, integrated two committees. One of the committees was to review the Steve Oronsaye report and its white paper, chaired by Mr. Gonji Bukar Aji, a retired head of civil service of the federation. The second committee was constituted to review new agencies created from 2014 to date which was chaired by Ms. Ama Pepple, another former head of civil service of the federation. “After the submission of the Ama Pepple chaired committee report, there is a need to constitute a white paper for the committee to consider its recommendation by government, hence the inauguration today of this committee. “I look forward to working with you on delivering this assignment. I noticed that we did not put a time limit, but I would ask that we probably have this report turned in as quickly as possible, within a period of six weeks. If you can do that, we would appreciate it, so that we will begin the process of the implementation of this report.” The committee, which will be chaired by Ebele Okeke, former head of service, has other members including: Ibukun Odusote (retired permanent secretary); Mustapha Suliaman (retired permanent secretary); Ernest Umakhihe, permanent secretary, ministry of agriculture and rural development; Mahmuda Mamman, permanent secretary, ministry of health; Hassan Musa, permanent secretary, ministry of information and culture; and Dasuki Arabi, director-general, Bureau of Public Service Reforms, who is also the secretary of the committee.