Maritime Workers’ Union of Nigeria (MWUN) says it has withdrawn its membership from the Council of Maritime Transport Unions and Associations (COMTUA) following a breach of agreements by some members. In a letter dated March 10, 2022, and seen by TheCable, the trade union accused the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) and “some members” of constantly breaching the provisions of the memorandum of understanding (MoU) entered into by members. The letter, signed by Felix Akingboye, secretary-general, MWUN, was addressed to the managing director of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA). According to the letter, other key members such as the Nigerian Association of Road transport (NARTO), the Association of Maritime Truck Owners (AMATO), and the Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria (RTEAN) have also withdrawn their memberships. “I am directed to inform you, sir, that Maritime Workers’ Union of Nigeria (MWUN) has withdrawn from the Council of Maritime Transport Unions and Association (COMTUA),” the letter reads. “We are constrained to take our exit from the council due to the continuous breach of the provisions of the council’s memorandum of understanding (MoU) by members, especially the National Union of Roaf Transport Workers (NURTW).” The union accused NURTW of writing frivolous petitions against members of MWUN and other stakeholders, such as government agencies, which “led to police arrest and the resultant embarrassment caused to the union”. It also accused NURTW of peddling falsehoods against members of MWUN and other stakeholders. “Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria (MWUN), being a focus and responsible union, cannot remain and be a party to an organisation that professes one thing and do the other,” the letter added. “Consequently, Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria (MWUN) ceases to be a party to any action or discussion of the council effective from the date of our letter of withdrawal from the council, a copy of which is attached for your perusal. “Also forwarded is a copy of the council’s letter of acceptance of our withdrawal dated 12th July 2021. “It is also on record that other key members of the council such as NARTO, AMATO, RTEAN have also withdrawn their memberships of the council.” The group said it would remain a member of the steering and enforcement committees set up by the ministry of transportation to decongest the port access roads to facilitate ease of doing business.