Amnesty International has called on the federal government to investigate allegations of extrajudicial killings involving Ebube Agu operatives. The development comes days after reports that seven persons were allegedly killed by members of the Ebube Agu security outfit in Otulu in Oru East LGA of Imo state. In April 2021, south-east governors announced the setup of a joint security outfit, codenamed ‘Ebube Agu’, with the aim to tackle insecurity in the zone. In a statement by Osai Ojigho, country director of Amnesty International Nigeria, on Tuesday, the organisation accused the security operatives of refusing to carry out proper investigation. “Such killings cannot be justified under any circumstances whatsoever. Nigerian authorities must end these unlawful killings. Authorities must promptly, thoroughly, and transparently investigate the killings and bring to justice, in fair trials, anyone suspected of criminal responsibility. Authorities must also ensure access to justice and effective remedies for victims and their families,” the statement reads. “Amnesty International Nigeria has documented several cases of extrajudicial executions, enforced disappearances, mass arrest, torture, extortions and ill-treatment by law enforcement officers and members of the Ebubeagu security outfit responding to the violence in the Southeast. “Instead of launching proper investigations into these killings, security and government officials are often quick to claim victims of extrajudicial executions were caught up in shoot-outs or label them members of the Eastern Security Network (ESN), the armed wing of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) or unknown gunmen. “International law requires the Nigerian government to promptly investigate unlawful killings with a view to bringing perpetrators to justice. “Amnesty International is calling on the Nigerian authorities to put an end to the patterns of extrajudicial executions, by carrying out a prompt, impartial, independent and effective investigation into the killings and other human rights violations committed by the Ebubeagu security outfit and other law enforcement officials.”