Mohammad Barkindo, secretary-general of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), will be buried in Yola, Adamawa state, today. Mele Kyari, group managing director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) Limited, made the announcement on Wednesday. Kyari had announced Barkindo’s death earlier on Wednesday. Barkindo died at about 11p.m on Tuesday, a few hours after delivering a speech to oil and gas stakeholders at the ongoing 2022 Nigerian oil and gas conference and exhibition in Abuja, according to the NNPC GMD. “Dr Muhammad Sanusi Barkindo will be buried in his home town of Yola at 4 pm today 6th July 2022. The Janaiza prayers will be offered at the Yola Central mosque by the Lamido of Adamawa’s palace. May Allah forgive him and have mercy upon him,” he tweeted. Dr Muhammad Sanusi Barkindo will be buried in his home town of Yola at 4pm today 6th July 2022. The Janaiza prayers will be offered at the Yola Central mosque by the Lamido of Adamawa’s palace. May Allah forgive him and have mercy upon him. — Mele Kyari (@MKKyari) July 6, 2022  Barkindo has held several positions both in Nigeria and on the international stage, including principal administrative officer for Nigerian Mining Corporation, general managing director (GMD) as well as Nigerian governor for OPEC. Barkindo was aged 63. ENERGY STAKEHOLDERS MOURN BARKINDO Day 3 of the 2022 Nigerian oil and gas conference kicked off with condolence remarks following the news of Barkindo’s death. Christopher Hudson, president (energy) DMG Events, noted that Barkindo had a tremendous impact on the global energy space. “It is with great sadness that I stand before you today share to share the news and express our deepest condolences for the loss of His Excellency, Muhammad Barkindo, secretary-general of OPEC, who passed away last night,” Hudson said. “His excellency had a profound and positive impact on the global energy market as well as the Nigerian oil and gas industry. His excellency was one of the founding fathers of NOG, where we stand today. Gbenga Komolafe, CEO, Nigerian Upstream Regulatory Commission (NUPRC), also joined others in expressing his condolences on the passing of Barkindo. “That goes to show the Ephemerality of life,” he said. “For me, it was very shocking and sad. I just mustered the courage to be here.”