Yekini Nabena, a former deputy spokesman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), says the defeat his party suffered at the Osun governorship election is a warning to Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Lagos state governor. Ademola Adeleke, governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), polled 403,371 votes to beat Gboyega Oyetola, governor of Osun and All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate in the election. In a statement on Tuesday, Nabena said “if care is not taken”, Sanwo-Olu’s reelection bid may suffer the same fate. The APC chieftain called for “genuine reconciliation” among party members in order to win forthcoming elections. “Osun state governorship election has come and gone but we must learn a lesson,” the former spokesman said. “In 2018, the then national chairman of APC, Adams Oshiomhole, and his national working committee (NWC) worked so hard to defeat nature in Osun, but in 2022, nature came back with full force to take its place. “It is a warning to the Lagos state governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and others that if care is not taken, the same hand of nature will touch them. “Sanwo-Olu recently came to south-south with Governor Rotimi Akeredolu and Governor Kayode Fayemi, that can not deliver Osun state, to woo Governor Nyesom Wike without consulting the zonal leaders of the APC. “That’s very disrespectful to our APC leaders from the Niger Delta where we have Rotimi Ameachi in Rivers state, Adams Oshiomhole from Edo state, Ovie Omo-Agege from Delta state, Chief Timipre Sylva from Bayelsa state, Ben Ayade from Cross Rivers state, who is even a governor’s colleague and my humble self. “Leaders in the south-south APC must be respected in every state. “The only way out for the APC as a party is to respect leaders in every state and zone, and not just think you can arrogantly arrange your boys to install leaders anywhere like they tried to do in Bayelsa, Kogi and Rivers states by some paper weight governors from the west who solely rely on Asiwaju to win election.” The APC chieftain added that every member of the political party is important to its progress.