Kenneth Amaeshi, chief economic adviser to the Imo state government, says the digital economy is the best passport to the global economy. Amaeshi said this while speaking on a webinar on the topic, ‘Digital economy opportunities in Imo State’ during a radio programme sponsored by the state government, which runs on Orient FM, 94.5FM and Ozisa FM and 96.1 FM every Saturday. He also doubles as a professor of sustainable finance and governance at the European University Institute, Italy and visiting professor of leadership and financial markets in Africa at the London School of Economics, United Kingdom. According to him, the digital economy allows people to access products and services to create wealth through social media and e-commerce using the appropriate applications. On his part, Boniface Nworgu, commissioner for science and technology, Imo, commended Amaeshi on the rare initiative, adding that one of the core mandates of his ministry included the digital economy and expressed delight to be part of the programme. He further said information communication technology (ICT) is one of the cardinal objectives of the present administration under the leadership of Senator Hope Uzodimma, adding that the digital economy in the state has been accorded national recognition. Nworgu, however, said there is a need to extend the digital economy opportunities to rural areas for the exploration of the rural dwellers, whom he identified as the potential beneficiaries of the digital economy. On his part, Nsikak John, country manager, Elev8 Nigeria, described the digital economy as a worldwide internet technology creator and enabler which enhances the exchange of values. He added that e-commerce can add about 25 percent or more to the nation’s gross domestic product (GDP) by 2025. Olu Akanmu, president and chief executive officer, OPay Nigeria, also said it is of much importance for all to have access to the internet to be relevant in the digital economy as well as create wealth. According to him, operating bank accounts and other financial transactions are made easy through the digital economy as people can stay in their house to perform all financial transactions.