The house of representatives has invited Folasade Yemi-Esan, head of service of the federation, and Sule Abdulaziz, managing director of the Nigerian Transmission Company (TCN). Yemi-Esan and Abdulaziz are to appear before the house committee on federal character and public service matters to explain the alleged marginalisation of Bayelsa in the recruitment in TCN. The lawmakers passed the resolution during the plenary session on Wednesday following the adoption of a motion sponsored by Preye Oseke, a legislator from Bayelsa. While moving his motion, the lawmaker described the recruitment as “skewed”, saying it runs against the federal character principle. “The Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) is in the process of concluding a recruitment exercise in which over four hundred applicants have been favourably considered,” he said. “Only a few of such successful applicants are from Bayelsa state, despite the very many eligibly qualified applicants from the said state. “Considering the youths’ restiveness on account of mass unemployment, this act of bias and uneven distribution of opportunities could negatively impact unethical conducts perpetrated by youths of the state. “The disequilibrium of the opportunities skewed against Bayelsa state is not only discriminatory but amounts to a clear breach of sections 14 (3) and (4) of the 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on the application of the federal character principle. “The continued marginalisation and discrimination of the people of Bayelsa state in previous and ongoing recruitment exercises by ministries, departments and agencies is a potential cause for disaffection among the teeming unemployed youths in the state who desire gainful employment.” Nkem Abonta, a lawmaker from Abia, in an amendment to the motion, said other states are also affected, adding that the probe should be extended beyond Bayelsa. The amendment was adopted, and the motion was approved after it was put to a voice vote by Idris Wase, deputy speaker of the house of representatives.