The attack on President Muhammadu Buhari’s advance team in Katsina is trending on social media. The advance team was on its way to Daura to prepare for the president’s Sallah visit when it was attacked, and two persons were wounded. Some social media users are reacting to the development. Below are some reactions on Twitter. If bandits can attack the Presidential convoy with no fear at all, there's a big problem in the land. President Buhari treated these bandits with kids' gloves. No one is safe. — POOJA!!! (@PoojaMedia) July 5, 2022  In one night, terrorists have attacked the convoy of President Buhari's advance team in Katsina & the Kuje Prisons, in Kuje Area Council of Abuja. This is a few days after the attack in Shiroro where several military personnel were killed. We cannot continue like this. — 20.10.2020 (@I_Am_Ilemona) July 5, 2022  Bandits attacked jengebe, mafara, kuje under Zamfara state yesterday. The same day they attacked President Buhari convoy in Katsina. On that very same day Kuje prison was attack. Kaduna to Abuja expressway is not safe & some Nigerians are still supporting this failed government. — Abdullahi Ibrahim Bademan Zazzau. (@Abdulrahaman___) July 6, 2022  Nigeria will not win terrorism with guns. There is an urgent need for the restoration of hope. If President Buhari can be attacked, nowhere is safe. — Ozii Baba Anieto (@ozii_baba) July 6, 2022  I hope the terrorists won't head to Aso Rock Rock presidential villa and demand the keys. I won't be surprised. Anna Kyari Kuje President Buhari. #nationallockdown — chris agabi (@agabichris) July 6, 2022  In 1 day terrorists attacked President Buhari's convoy, terrorists attacked and took over Kuje prison. Terrorists abducting and killing people in Benue, Kaduna, Zamfara, Plateau are no longer news. Buhari's APC Gov't well done, yea, Nigeria is doing better now. — Blessed  (@tweetJudon) July 6, 2022  Our prayers for Nigeria at this moment. Things are not  smooth in areas of security and economy. Two great pillars is in comatose; Kuje Prison in the FCT was attacked and even the President’s Convoy, this is the height of it. #NationalShutdown President Buhari #itshappening — Tbabtz Designs  (@bello_Tbabtz) July 6, 2022  The Kuje Prison Attack And The Attack Of President Buhari's Convoy Are Just Manifestation Symptoms Of Something That Isn't Clear Yet. If The President Is Helpless And Being Blackmailed, There's Nothing Wrong In Seeking Foreign Help. This Is Not Good, It Is Cause For Worry. — GOPAL (@GopalGopaldass) July 6, 2022  With all this report of deadly attacks on the advance convoy of President Buhari and the Kuje Prison ….. It will be business as usual tomorrow. The security agencies are as helpless as ordinary Nigerians #itshappening — Temitope (@thurpe_johnson) July 6, 2022  If only you know where Kuje Prisons is located, and the boldness to attack President Buhari's Convoy you will be genuinely worried. — MrBond (@official_mrbond) July 6, 2022  With the extent of insecurity in Nigeria, it will even be a miracle if 2023 elections hold successfully. Buhari convoy attacked same day as Kuje prison. Kuje | Abba Kyari | President Buhari | Doyin Okupe — Youcee (@youcee_suksez) July 6, 2022  The attack on President Buhari's convoy whether Advance or Retreat does not mean much, what truly matters for me is the temerity and the fact that they can dare. I thought this man retired as a General? #KATSINA — Proximo (@mrproximo) July 6, 2022  