The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) says all network and non-network operators must resolve any problematic complaint by their subscribers within 30 days. NCC disclosed this in its ‘Draft — Consumer Code of Practice Regulations’ document uploaded to its website on Monday. According to the draft, if subscribers are not satisfied with the result of an original complaint, they can choose to refer it to the commission after a month of expressing their dissatisfaction to their operator. The commission also said the original complaints by telecom consumers must be attended to within 30 days after original filing. “In the event that a complaint, including any escalation process, has not been resolved to the consumer’s satisfaction within thirty days of being communicated to the licensee, the licensee shall advise consumers that they may refer the complaint to the commission,” it said. “Any other dispute referred to the commission shall be resolved using the processes set out in its Dispute Resolution Guidelines or any Dispute Resolution procedure which the commission may deem appropriate in the circumstance. “Where possible, consumers shall be advised when they make a complaint of the expected actions and timing for investigating and resolving the complaints. “In the event that the licensee regards the complaint as frivolous or vexatious, the consumer shall be informed accordingly and if dissatisfied the consumer shall have the further recourse described below. In any event, no consumer complaint shall remain unresolved for more than three months.” The commission further said licensees (network operators and non-network operators) must provide information about their complaint process in various media and formats. It added that in handling complaints, a policy entails a line of complaint procedure that is transparent, accessible, and effective and facilitates appropriate access to alternative dispute resolution. It also said people with special needs and the elderly should be able to access complaint handling processes. According to the regulatory agency, any consumer complaints and any related service failures, including payment of any specific service credits or rebates that aren’t attended to will eventually be treated by the provisions of its Quality of Service Regulations. It also said every complaint handling process must be free except when the investigation of the complaint requires the retrieval of records more than two years old and results in any incremental expense or significant inconvenience to the firm. In addition, the NCC said network operators and non-network operators in the country must attend to enquiries concerning current service arrangements, including rates, terms and conditions for all services offered to the public, at retail offices, or on their websites within 96 hours. It, however, said operators are at liberty to challenge the commission’s decision if not accepted.