PYO Global, a group with focus on promoting good governance, has congratulated Dolapo Osinbajo, wife of the vice-president, on her birthday. Dolapo clocked 55 on Friday. In a statement, the group described Osinbajo’s wife as a blessing to the country, adding that her support for her husband and her philanthropic activities are commendable. “The PYO Global, which is a Movement for Good Governance which comprises Nigerians at home and abroad and non-Nigerians, showered praises on the wife of the Vice President, noting that, she is not only a beautiful and humble woman, but one that has set an exemplary standard for women everywhere,” the statement reads. According to the statement, Emma Ginelly, coordinator of the group in the United Kingdom, described her as “an admirable woman who is very humble”. “As the wife of the Vice President, she has been very supportive to her husband and she has shown that behind every successful man, there is a successful woman,” Ginelly said. On his part, Baba Adams, coordinator of PYO Global (United States), said: “She is a woman of substance and one that has stood apart from the rest. She is indeed a role model to many women across the world. She has served Nigeria with great dignity and honour.” Maryam Hassan, northern coordinator, PYO Global, said Dolapo is a role model, adding that “her efforts in empowering different strata of women is well appreciated”. Congratulating the vice-president’s wife, Etim Etim, south-south coordinator of PYP Global, said she is a model for discipline and values. “When she kneels to greet elders, she only helps to reinforce our values, morals and ideals which are fast disappearing. Happy Birthday to a woman who carries divine grace,” Etim said. Princewill Ogban, PYO Global (Canada), described Dolapo as a great leader who is an inspiration to women, adding that “her spousal relationship and support to her husband has contributed immensely to the numerous person and poverty eradication programmes that have touched the lives of many Nigerians, including market women and artisans”. In his message, Franklin Aluko, representative of PYO Global in Texas, USA, said: “Her humanitarian contributions to women and children across Nigeria have not gone unnoticed. She is a big force for women in Nigeria and her patriotism has been visible to all Nigerians. She is a blessing to Nigeria and I’m happy that God has kept her in good health. I wish her Happy Birthday.”