Marie-Jeanne Ntakirutimana, Burundi’s ambassador to Nigeria, has advised Nigerians to be united in the fight against terrorism. Ntakirutimana said this in commemoration of the 60th anniversary of Burundi. Burundi clocked its 60th year of independence on July 1, 2022. According to NAN on Sunday, Ntakirutimana said Burundi tackled terrorism by standing together amid diversity to fight the common enemy, adding that her country is willing to share its expertise with Nigeria. “Nigeria is a sister country and Burundians are ready to come and help Nigeria get secured,” she was quoted as saying. “Burundi had some issues but for our country to escape those issues, we got united. Our people are diverse, but our difference has been our strength; so we used it. “We decided to fight together. So, I call on Nigerians to be united in your diversity; Diversity could be the strength of a nation. Nigerians, be united to fight together.” She described Burundi as one of the safest countries in Africa, which had also helped other countries fight insecurity by sending troops to countries like Somalia and Central Africa. On Burundi’s 60th anniversary, Ntakirutimana said the country recorded significant achievements in the past years across all sectors, with more to be achieved in the nearest future. She said Burundi developed its agriculture sector, social economy, infrastructure, hospitals, schools and its mining sector. “Now, the country has put much efforts in agriculture because we have embraced a country which has many opportunities in agriculture,” she said “We produce a large quantity of coffee which is exported and the coffee produced in Burundi is of the highest quality. The tea is the second product we export. “Since 2021 when the president was elected, he decided to develop the agriculture sector. That is why we continue to call on investors to come to work in this sector. “We also call on the investors who can come and work in the mining sector.” According to the latest data on the Global Terrorism Index, Nigeria ranked sixth worldwide, while Burundi is 43rd on the world ranking. Also, while Nigeria is listed as one of the countries with the “47 worst terrorist attacks in 2020”, Burundi isn’t on the list. Meanwhile, according to Trading Economics, a site known for providing “accurate” data on countries, although terror attacks in Burundi peaked in 2016, there has been a drop in the years after.