Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, first lady of Lagos state, says deliberate efforts must be made to debunk the various myths against the rights of women. Speaking at the second edition of the Muslim Sisters’ seminar hosted by her office on Tuesday, she said the event is aimed at highlighting the strategic role of women in ensuring a better future for the younger generation. “We decided that it is important that we talk to our Muslim sisters, ensuring that if they are going to have a better future, they must put their health first; they must know their rights, and they must be security conscious,” she said. “So, we have considered these three topics; put them together based on the fact that they are apt for the moment to debunk a lot of myths out there so that the modern woman can understand what is happening and be empowered to make informed choices and decisions.” Terming the participants’ enthusiasm as “encouraging”, she said the seminar provided a platform for meaningful interaction and information about women’s roles in society. She said the seminar was designed as a networking platform for women of all age groups and professions to dissect relevant topics on parenting, security, health, and rights of the Muslim sisters, to proffer sustainable and positive solutions to contemporary issues. Sulaimon Oluwatoyin Abou-Nola, the chief Imam of Lagos, commended the first lady and recommended that the program be held bi-annually to cascade the message to more women. Abiodun Alabi, the commissioner of police, Lagos command, in his session on security, urged women to be wary of jumping at business deals, and always deploy artificial intelligence such as the installation of CCTV and general employment of technology to prevent crime. “Your children should know important numbers; you must always run a background check for your staff, including domestic staff; desist from displaying expensive wares in your car; you must be observant and your movements must be confidential to a few; your car alarm is a great security device; and also the neighborhood watch groups are important,” he said. “Remember, your security starts with you. The extent of how secure you are is dependent on your level of security consciousness, awareness, and cooperation with the law enforcement agencies. You are your security.”