The Jama’atu Nasril Islam (JNI) has called on the federal government to go after those responsible for the killings in south-east. In a statement condemning the killing of a woman and her children in Anambra state, the JNI urged the federal government to arrest the situation before it is too late. The incident occurred in a community in Orumba north LGA of the state over the weekend and has elicited criticism from many Nigerians. The JNI described the killing of the woman, who was said to be a northerner residing in Anambra, as “senseless and barbaric”. “The recurring heartless and calamitous unprovoked killings and maiming in Anambra and other parts of the country are condemnable,” the statement reads. “At the instance of its President-General, His Eminence, the Sultan of Sokoto Alhaji (Dr.) Muhammad Sa’adu Abubakar, the Jama’atu Nasril Islam (JNI) condemns the senseless, barbaric and unprovoked killing of one Harira Jibrin; a pregnant woman with four of her children at Isulo in Orumba North Local Government Area of Anambra State.” JNI said it has observed “with dismay” many other killings of citizens, particularly Muslims, in the south-eastern states of Nigeria and that it feels that it was high time the governments acts before things get out of hand. “As it could be discerned, the killings are now transforming to being more religious and ethnic/tribal conflicts,” the statement reads. “Their escalation may not be easily halted. Nigerians should learn from different historical accounts that, religious or ethnic conflicts and wars are undoubtedly extremely preposterous. So, they should by all means be avoided. “The lexis of the so called unknown gunmen is no longer tenable. They are known but ignored! “In light of the forgone, we call on governments at all levels to, as a matter of urgency, do everything possible and use any means possible to curtail the situation and arrest all those who are behind the ongoing killings in the south-eastern Nigeria, before it is too late.”