Lucky Igbokwe, a governorship hopeful in Abia, says there are indications that Okezie Ikpeazu, the governor, may impose his “anointed candidate” on the state. Igbokwe, who is running on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), spoke on Monday in Abia. The PDP governorship primaries are scheduled to take place across the country on Wednesday. Last week, some governorship hopefuls and chieftains of the PDP in Abia asked the national working committee (NWC) to take immediate action to prevent an “impending implosion” of the party in the state. The hopefuls had said no ward congresses were conducted in the state, hence the delegates’ list to be used for the primary is a “nullity”. Speaking on the development, Igbokwe said the process leading up to the governorship primary is defective, and that the election may not be transparent. “I have been ready for this exercise all my life. I believe I was born to serve my people,” he said. “But when the foundation is faulty, the building will ultimately collapse. The process leading up to this exercise is faulty, hence, my rooted doubts over the fairness of the upcoming primary. “I do not trust the process as every action of the governor points to the imposition of his anointed candidate. This is not how democracy works.” Similarly, a coalition of stakeholder groups on the platform of Oganihu Ndi Abia, said immediate action should be taken to address the complaints raised by the governorship hopefuls. “Unless we get it right in leadership, especially political leadership in Abia state, we shall continue to be in the doldrums. We have been monitoring the current political developments and the jostle for political positions in our state and country,” the coalition said. “We note complaints coming from stakeholders and participants in all contending political parties in the state over lack of internal democracy and imposition of candidates. “This is obviously what has kept us down as a state. We, therefore, advise all political parties in our state to maintain internal democracy at all strata and give a level playing ground for all aspirants” The groups are Abia Redemption group, Abia Rennaisance, Ndinne Abia, Abia Youth Assembly, Save Abia Congress, Nzuko Ndiabia, Abians in Diaspora, Voice of Hope, Abia Enough is Enough Movement, Abia Elders Forum and the Coalition for Change in Abia.