Chukwuma Soludo, governor of Anambra, has offered N10 million as reward for anyone with useful information on the murder of Okechukwu Okoye, lawmaker representing Aguata II constituency. Okoye was kidnapped on May 15, alongside Cyril Chiegboka, his campaign director, in Aguata. On Saturday, the lawmaker’s headless body was found in Nnobi area of the state. Tochukwu Ikenga, Anambra police spokesman, who confirmed the development, said investigation into the incident is ongoing. Speaking on the development in a statement, Christian Aburime, spokesman to the Anambra governor, said aside from Okoye, Chiegboka was also killed. “Prof Chukwuma Charles Soludo, CFR, has received with shock and deep sadness the news of the gruesome murder of Hon. Okechukwu Okoye, member representing Aguata II Constituency at the State House of Assembly, and his aide, Cyril Chiegboka,” the statement reads. “Both Hon Okoye and Cyril Chiegboka were kidnapped on the road by the heartless and barbaric murderers on 15th May. “Gov Soludo condoles with his kinsmen of Isuofia, noting that it is probably the same criminal gang that attacked him and killed three policemen at Isuofia two years ago that are once again on the prowl. But they can never cow down Isuofia and Anambra state. “Governor Soludo, still in shock over the barbaric acts against his two kinsmen, vowed that the perpetrators as well as all criminals operating in Anambra must be decisively brought to book. “Governor Soludo has consequently placed a N10 million reward for anyone or group that will avail valuable information that will lead to the immediate arrest of the perpetrators of this dastardly act. Anambra will soon be a hell for these criminals, Gov Soludo assured. “Governor Soludo wishes to reassure Ndi Anambra of government’s resolve and renewed determination with the security agencies to go all out against the criminals and ensure they are brought to justice.” While urging residents of the state to be prepared for the “all-out war against the criminals”, Soludo added that “Anambra will win against the forces of darkness”.