BY OLAWOYIN EDRIS BUSAYO It is no more news that the political atmosphere of Nigeria has started to take shape and this is geared towards the 2023 general election. The rate at which the two major political parties, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and All Progressives Congress (APC), are making adjustments to their election timetables will no doubt convince us that Nigeria is at a crossroads–crossroads that require mental alertness; a road where you need to be double-sure before crossing. This road could be likened to the APC and PDP presidential primary timetables. Initially, the ruling party, APC, had set aside May 29 to May 30 for their convention, while PDP is expected to start their presidential primary today and end on May 29. There is just a difference of one day between the two parties. Now, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), on Friday, May 27, 2022, in their press release gave all political parties the deadline of June 9 for the submission of names of their candidates for the 2023 elections. Recall that the deadline for the submission of names of all candidates was June 3, before the extension. The APC, in apparent reaction to this development, quickly deemed it pertinent to postpone their primary to June 6-8. Looking at the three days set aside by the APC for their convention, they may assume that the PDP could likely be forced to postpone their convention, and it may be the same day as the APC’s proposed date. Also, there is a likelihood that if there are aggrieved members after the PDP convention, the three days set aside by the APC may be enough to woo them over to the ruling party. It will not be out of order if the national working committee of the PDP also postpones the party’s presidential primary to the same day as APC (June 6-8), but choose a different state to close the gap of three days. Though if one must consider the logistics that have been put in place by the opposition party, which is supposed to start its convention today, the postponement may not be prudent enough. But this is a crossroads for the two major political parties in Nigeria and there cannot afford to be mistakes, seeing as such a decision could have an effect on the Nigerian political landscape for another four years. Olawoyin Edris Busayo wrote via olawoyin4u@gmail.com