The Kaduna state government has announced the appointment of Baba Alhaji, a lecturer at the Nigerian Defence Academy (NDA), as the new statistician-general of the state. The appointment was announced in a statement issued on Tuesday by Muyiwa Adekeye, media aide to Nasir el-Rufai, governor of Kaduna. According to the statement, three other appointments were also made by the state — Yusuf Arrigasiyyu as executive secretary, Kaduna state pilgrims agency; Abdullahi Ibrahim, special adviser, political matters; and Adama Wada as acting director-general, Kaduna state schools quality assurance authority. Adekeye said the appointments are to “fill certain vacancies and invigorate the machinery of governance, as the administration inches to the final circle of its term”. “Until his appointment, the new statistician-general was a lecturer at the Department of Mathematical Sciences, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. He holds a Ph.D. in Statistics from the University of Essex,” the statement reads. “Dr Alhaji earned his first degree in Statistics from the University of Maiduguri and a master’s from the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria. “The new special adviser on political matters is a former chairman of the interim management committee of Birnin Gwari Local Government Council. “The new executive secretary of the Pilgrims Agency was most recently the Director, Policy and Transparency Division, at Kaduna Polytechnic. “Arrigasiyyu is also a former dean of the School of Health Sciences and Technology at Kaduna Polytechnic, and was provost of the Shehu Idris College of Health Sciences and Technology in Makarfi.” Arrigasiyyu is said to have been a member of the national hajj monitoring and support team for over 50 years, and also holds a doctorate in community health. “The new Director General of Quality Assurance started her teaching career in 1991 and has worked as an academic administrator at various government secondary schools,” Adekeye added. “Hajiya Adama has also been a supervisor and examiner for the West African Examination Council. She worked as a quality assurance evaluator at the Chikun Local Government Education Quality Assurance Office.”