It is no longer news that Abdullahi Sule, governor of Nasarawa state, is seeking a second term in office on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Sule declared his intention to seek a second term in office on Tuesday at an event in Lafia, Nasarawa capital city. To enable him to run for another term in office, a support group of the governor known as the Abdullahi Sule Amalgamated Support Groups, said they “purchased” the ruling party’s N50 million expression of interest and nomination forms for him. With the forms, he will be able to contest for the party’s ticket ahead of the 2023 polls. Speaking at the event, Sule said the gesture of the group is “very touching” and for that reason he “cannot turn down their request”. “Some of these people who are barely making a living came together and raised the funds to buy the nomination and expression of interest forms for me to re-contest for the 2023 governorship election,” the governor said. “This gesture is very touchy and important to me so I cannot turn down their request. Therefore, I hereby declare to re-contest as governor in the 2023 election.” However, Sule’s comments are contrary to what he said in June 2020. While speaking with journalists at the time, the governor said he is not bothered about a second term. “One thing I have never been threatened about in life is my second term as governor. Let me tell you, in 1998, while working in the US, I felt I was bored. I took my early retirement package from an oil company, I went and set up our small company and we were running our business,” he said. “I thought that was it. I never knew I was going to return to Nigeria as a whole, not to talk of coming to Nigeria to set up a company and become MD African Petroleum and later become GMD in Dangote company. “That was even when I started enjoying life; not today. So I went through all these as extra to me in life; things I never thought would happen, but because God has blessed me that it will happen and it actually happened. “Then out of the blues, from nowhere, I’m now a governor, and somebody is saying one term, and then I will cry, sleep and die? To hell with him. One term, yes, it’s fine. That is how I look at it. One term is good enough.”