Bola Tinubu, former governor of Lagos and All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential hopeful, says he will make the provision of security his major priority if he is elected as president. He said this over the weekend when he visited Borno and Yobe states to consult with APC delegates on his presidential bid. In his remarks in Yobe, Tinubu also promised to promote policies to improve the state’s agricultural sector. “On arriving here, we flew over large expanses of land, land with agricultural potential. It made me happy as I know we can and will transform Yobe. We will make it a productive state, employ mechanised irrigation, and process sorghum and cotton for local consumption and export,” he said. “We must utilise our potential as a country to train and employ our youths, deploy modern technology, lower consumer prices, feed our growing population and export finished products. “We must also establish commodity exchange boards and consider credit reforms so as to better support our agricultural value chain. “I view the issue of insecurity with utmost seriousness and will give it the highest priority in my administration. Our military, police force and security agencies are committed and capable. They have sacrificed much and lost many colleagues in the noble and necessary battle to protect this nation from threats. “We must help their brave efforts by further equipping them with high-grade, advanced military/law enforcement assets and by fashioning strategies appropriate for the challenges we face.” In his remarks in Borno, the APC chieftain said he would also focus on economic growth and increasing job opportunities. “We will implement structural, economic and social reforms to lay the foundation for long-term sustainable growth. Industrialisation policies will no longer be confined to the pages of government reports. They will be put into action. My administration will put them into action,” he said. During his visit to both states, he also met with Mai Mala Buni and Babagana Zulum, governors of Yobe and Borno, respectively.