Binta Nyako, judge of a federal high court in Abuja, says Nnamdi Kanu, leader of Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), should be allowed to watch matches featuring Liverpool football club (FC) while in detention. Kanu has been in the custody of the Department of State Services (DSS) since he was rearrested in Kenya and brought back into the country on June 25, 2021. Kanu was re-arraigned on an amended 15-count charge bordering on treasonable felony. However, on April 8, Binta Nyako, the judge, struck out eight out of the 15-count charge. At the court session on Wednesday, Nyako refused to grant bail to the detained IPOB leader. Shortly after ruling on the bail application, Mike Ozekhome, Kanu’s senior counsel, complained that the DSS had not been allowing him and other lawyers enough time to meet with their client. However, Nyako reminded Ozekhome that he had previously thanked the DSS in open court for procuring an orthopaedic mattress, pillow, and other items for his client and that she had already ordered that Kanu receive moderate treatment and care while in detention, including food, clothing, and medical care. Turning to Kanu she said despite her order for him to change his clothes, the IPOB leader continued to put on the same Fendi designer outfit. She said the defendant, on his own accord, keeps coming into the court with the same outfit despite being seen in the media with other clothes. The judge then joked that she was a Liverpool FC supporter and asked Ozekhome whether he was a football lover as well, to which the senior counsel replied yes, adding that he was also a fan of Liverpool FC. Nyako then asked Kanu if he was a fan of Chelsea FC. “What is your team?” she asked. Kanu stood up in the dock and said: “My team is Liverpool even from the age of seven”. The judge then told the DSS legal director who was in court to allow Kanu to watch the Champions League finals between Real Madrid and Liverpool and any other match of his favourite football club. “You must allow the defendant to watch the matches any day they are playing,” she said, adding that she was going to make an order to that effect. Responding, the DSS official said his office had always given Kanu access to watch television.