Idiat Adebule, former Lagos deputy governor, has won the ticket to represent the All Progressives Congress (APC) for Lagos west senatorial district in the 2023 general election. Adebule, who served as the deputy of Akinwunmi Ambode, former Lagos governor, polled 424 votes to defeat Musiliu Obanikoro (119) and Kayode Opeifa (4). Ten votes were declared as void, while 557 delegates participated in the Lagos APC senatorial primary. In her acceptance speech, Adebule urged the people to give their support to the party in the 2023 general election, adding that if elected into the red chamber, she would ensure quality representation for the district. Meanwhile, Obanikoro walked out of the election venue before the end of the exercise. Speaking later on the development, he said the process was marred with malpractices and intimidation, adding that he would address it with the leadership of the party in due course. He also said the acclaimed winner is not qualified to contest in the election. “This is because she did not participate in the electoral process of obtaining the expression of interest and nomination forms, nor did she participate in the screening which she did not also submit to,” he said. “Therefore, it is obvious that the exercise was designed to favour the acclaimed winner who was not even qualified to stand  for the election.” Meanwhile, Obanikoro’s defeat comes hours after his son, Babajide, lost his bid to secure a second term to represent Eti-Osa federal constituency at the house of representatives. Babajide lost the APC ticket to Oyekanmi Elegushi, brother to Saheed Elegushi, a monarch in Lagos. Babajide got 23 votes, while Elegushi secured 25 votes at the primary which held on Friday at the Iru Victoria Island local council development area in Lagos. “At the end of the exercise, Oyekanmi Elegushi scored 25 votes; Babjide Obanikoro scored 23; Adegoke Rasaq scored two,” Tolani Sule, the returning officer, said. According to NAN, 50 delegates participated in the exercise.