BY THADDEUS ONOJA AKPA For most lovers of Reggae music, today brings back memories and nostalgic feelings of one of her pioneering maestros – Bob Marley, Forty- One years after his death. Bob Marley needs no introduction: The Musician, The Reggae Guru, The Composer of One Love, One Heart; passed his message of love and peace, pan Africanism and Emancipation through his music. In taking reggae to the world, Bob Marley put Jamaica on the map. His legacy reaches beyond music, spreading messages of love and unity. Marley’s heartfelt message of unity, peace and religious devotion, “One Love” has become his most enduring hit. The song was released three different times. Robert Nesta Marley, famously known as Bob Marley, was born on 6 February 1945 and died on 11 May 1981. From the 1960s to the 1980s, he transcended three musical genres successfully, namely rock steady, reggae and ska. However, he was, and still is, accepted across the globe as the king of reggae. In the Redemption Song, he sang that we should emancipate ourselves from mental slavery, borrowing from the writings of Marcus Garvey – none but ourselves can free our minds. From the popular lyrics of “No Woman, No Cry”, ” Africa Unite”, Could You Be loved” to “Get up, Stand Up”, a powerful call to action continues to resonate with those struggling to overcome oppression. Whatever inspired it, Bob’s message is clear. For the first two verses, he tells the people not to wait until the next life to find fulfillment; it’s their right to be free and happy on this planet. The lines denying that God will come down from the sky to sort out the world’s problems may seem strange coming from a singer who was deeply religious, but it’s perfectly in keeping with Bob’s God, who was not above the clouds, but living with the rest of us as Emperor Haile Selassie of Ethiopia. In very succinct yet clouded music lyrics of Buffalo Soldier, stolen from Africa, brought to America, struggling for survival, Bob summarised the African story of the Trans Atlantic slave trade. In April 1978, Jamaica was at verge of a civil war between the Peoples National Party (PNP) and the Jamaican Labour Party (JLP). The national party was controlled by Michael Manley who was serving his first term as a socialist prime minister. On the opposing side is the more conservative Edward Seaga, the leader of the Jamaican Labour Party, who favored development. In an unprecedented gesture, Marley brought the leaders of the opposing parties to join hands in unity. So symbolic was this gesture that unity was possible. The role he played in ushering peace in tension soaked moments of Jamaican chequered history underscores the power of celebrities as non- state actors in international relations. Celebrities are so much loved, nearly worshipped and admired all over the World. Their fame and name have opened doors and literally turned swords into ploughshares and spears into prunning hooks. From the beloved Princess of Wales, The Timeless Diana to the Music Maestro and Convener of ‘We are The World’, Michael Jackson. The United Nations have recognized the efforts of Angelina Jolie, The Holy Father The Pope and the Dalai Lama in Promoting peace and brotherhood in the Universe. Former presidents and Famous Greats have done what Napoleon Bonaparte could not do. Nigeria needs her Celebrities to step up their game in changing the narrative. The BB Naija housemates will make more impact in visiting IDP camps and dilapidated public schools than just posting pictures on Instagram and visiting Dubai. We are waiting for Efe, Mercy Lambo, Maria, White Money and the General Pete to impact positively on our youths and children. We expect Tu Baba, Burna Boy, Kiss Daniel, Wizkid, My beloved Teni, Flavour Na bania, Naira Marley, my Duduke Simi and Tiwa Savage to hold hands and foster peace and unity in Nigeria. Our politicians too can impact on the impoverished society where poverty walks on all four legs. 100 million Naira used for nomination alone is an affront on a country that is the poverty capital of the world, a nation where over 100 million Nigerians live in sqalor and abject poverty. Back to Jamaica, in May 1981 the Prime Minister Edward Seaga and the Honorable Michael Manley met again in public and shook hands. It was at the Jamaican State Funeral for Bob Marley. The Honorable Robert Nesta Marley O.M. One Love! Thaddeus Onoja Akpa is Catholic Priest of the Diocese of Idah, Nigeria. He is an Author, Writer and Musician. You can reach him on WhatsApp 07030194226 and Twitter @akpaonoja.