BY YUSUF DANLAMI NDA Even the holy book says: “Beware of false prophets”. Undoubtedly we have reached another pivotal point in our political history again; a season where all and sundry throw their hats into the ring. There are those with sheep clothing, and there are only a few with skin as tight as a tiger. A conundrum of manifestoes has ensued but there can only be one man for the job, which is why thumbs must tick only the best, tested and trusted political officers. This discourse focuses on that one man, who amongst other equals has proven to be a different breed; armed with the best qualities of what a leader in today’s Nigeria should be. The man is Umaru Mohammed Bago, the young hearted, fierce and actionable lawmaker who belongs to a crop of some of the brightest and groundbreaking members the Nigerian parliament has ever seen. Bago, a seasoned banker and philanthropist has been representing the people of Chanchaga at the federal level, the national assembly, since 2011. His considerably short stint in the house of representatives has reflected a man who is proactive and passionate about the will of his people and society in general. It is no wonder he came close to the seat of speaker of the house of representatives on the first attempt he made at it. If that doesn’t say anything to you, it seemly suggests a man who is influential, altruistic and has maintained a certain level of connection with the communities he serves, and also amongst his colleagues. This is the kind of influence that Niger state needs. Niger state needs a man that is a leader, and that can draw investments to the city. The plans that Bago has put forward speak to massive infrastructure development and economic revival. These can only be made possible with a man who has the reach across Nigeria to make it happen. This is what Bago offers our people. A great leader does not forget where he comes from, nor does he forget the people he is trying to serve and influence. Perhaps this is why Bago has officially thrown his hat into the field of participants vying for the office of the next governor of Niger. He is a man that is deeply connected to his roots. His scholarship programmes are telling of how he values education—because of the impact it has also had on his life. Today, thousands of Nigerlites can boast of receiving one form of education courtesy of Bago. At a time where the state is in dire need of a fresh thinker and game-changer to help level up its indexes and breathe hope for its future, Bago appears to be the great fit, and the square peg in a square hole— he speaks the language of the people, he has got verve and style and was born and bred in Niger state; he has since walked his way to the top exuding brilliance, capacity and is seen as the face of the new Niger state our people are looking forward to. His records show that every opportunity he has had to speak up for change, he has taken it without looking back. His words are not just winning slogans, but heartfelt truths that unite the crowds. As he recently flagged off his campaign for the office of the governor of Niger, Bago has placed emphasis on uniting the people of Niger state against those who are seeking to use money to divide the state. His motto of being #StrongerTogether resonates powerfully with those who wish our state well. It is crucial for our reawakening. This community-minded approach to bringing change to Niger state is not pretence. Everyone who knows Bago would attest to the fact that he is a unifier and a pulling force toward the greater good. This is more than winning elections, it is about the people of Niger state. Bago does not just talk about flipping seats and votes, but rather about winning hearts and minds; a recipe that makes him the perfect choice in the 2023 polls. The real beauty of his candidature is that when he takes a cause to heart, it becomes a personal mission to change the status quo. It makes a difference both in everyday life and in the big game of politics where only a few people are committed to their work, where people speak up just for the sake of speaking rather than for a need to bring about effectual change. The honourable and philanthropist has over the years won a place in the minds of the youth of Niger as a progressive, exhibiting daily what being an active and informed member of society looks like, showing us that having agile, progressive innovators in office is not only attainable but also instrumental for the future of our nation. His self-confidence is powerful, and justified as well. The people of Niger state can see a future in Bago. He is the dream come true. What we Nigerlites pray for is that the evil intentions of those who seek to buy out the state using their resources will not come to pass. We want a governor we can relate with. We want a governor who every indigene of Niger state, regardless of ethnic leaning, tribe or religion can say this is my man. And that man is none other than Bago. The people of Niger indeed have gold in their hands, we must mine it! Nda, a political commentator, writes from Bida