Mai Mala Buni, Yobe governor, says Rotimi Amaechi, presidential hopeful, will ensure the continuity of the good that Nigerians currently enjoy. Speaking when he hosted Amaechi at the government house in Yobe on Monday, Buni said countries that have advanced got to where they are because of the continuity of policy and programmes. The governor said the presidential hopeful has the support of the All Progressives Congress (APC) delegates in Yobe. “We need continuity and consolidation with innovation to ensure that what we are enjoying today as a nation would at least continue, because we cannot afford to start afresh, we cannot afford to risk having a new hand,” he said. “Your Excellency, you will agree with me that most of the developed nations were developed as a result of continuity of policy and programmes, an unbroken chain of leadership. In Nigeria, a two-time Director General of a Presidential campaign and one of the most trusted and active members of cabinet, who has always been there for Mr. President to kickstart everything that will move the nation forward because all the campaign promises are on his fingertips, is fit. “Like I said earlier, ordinarily you shouldn’t have come. You know we granted a waiver to President Buhari in 2015 not to come, so we would have granted same to you, but as customary, you are here to interface with the delegates without taking the delegates for granted. “Let me use this opportunity to thank you for the newly designed railway line which you took to my house. “The design for the Port Harcourt-Maiduguri rail line that goes up to Goneri, from where we turn into Damaturu, and from Damaturu to Gashua, and all the other areas you have touched. The history of the Buhari government cannot be complete without your name. We, here in Yobe appreciate you and we are always in support of you.” On his part, Shehu Hashimi, Emir of Damaturu, said based on Amaechi’s track record, he would deliver good governance if elected president. “I know much about you, I know the experience you have and the challenges you have gone through,” the Emir said. “With your track record, when you become the president, you will deliver as expected. I pray that you will be supported by Nigerians to be the president of this country.”