The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has condemned the killing of Okechukwu Okoye, lawmaker representing Aguata II constituency in Anambra state. Okoye, an indigene of Isuofia, the same community as Chukwuma Soludo, governor of Anambra, was kidnapped in Aguata on May 15 alongside Cyril Chiegboka, his campaign director. Days later, his headless body was found in the Nnobi area of the state. Speaking on the development in a statement issued on Tuesday, Emma Powerful, IPOB spokesperson, described the killing as an “abominable” act, adding that the group will “hunt down” the perpetrators. “We strongly condemn the abominable beheading of Hon. Okechukwu Okoye who was abducted a few days ago in his area. We want to also state categorically that contrary to insinuations in some quarters, the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, could not in any way have had anything to do with this abominable act,” the statement reads. “It is imperative to state here that enemies of Biafra freedom and traitors in our region are seriously pulling all stunts to derail the freedom of our leader and the freedom of our dear Nation Biafra. “After thorough investigations by our intelligence team, we found out that the abominable beheading of Hon Okechukwu Okoye is the system of the fifth columnists who are bent on destabilising the efforts of the Indigenous People of Biafra IPOB.” The proscribed separatist group said its campaign to gain independence from Nigeria is done through peaceful means. “IPOB is not in the business of kidnapping or car snatching and has never been and will never be and,  therefore, we absolutely have nothing to do with the kidnap of Okechukwu Okoye,” the group said. “These kidnappers kidnapped this man on the day the Executive Governor of Anambra State, Professor Charles Chukwuma Soludo, visited our leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, in the DSS custody and every member of IPOB was very happy because he was the only Governor in the whole of Biafraland who summoned the courage to visit our leader in Abuja, since his extraordinary rendition from Kenya to Nigeria. “So, it will be an irony to accuse IPOB that welcomed the courage of Gov. Chukwuma Soludo in visiting our leader, when his brother governors are too afraid to do so. What is it going to benefit us killing the Governor’s lawmaker? What will be our gain in such wickedness? “IPOB does not give life and we don’t take life. They should stop dragging IPOB into something we know nothing about because of their hatred for us and their desire to scuttle the freedom of our leader and freedom of the Biafra Nation.”