Abiodun Alabi, Lagos police commissioner, has asked area commanders in the state to “deal decisively” with anyone instigating violence over the leadership tussle in the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW). Over the past weeks, parts of Lagos have experienced unrest following clashes between persons suspected to be loyalists of Musiliu Akinsanya, chairman of the Lagos motor parks committee, better known as MC Oluomo, and Azeez Abiola, state chairman of Tricycle Owners Association of Nigeria (TOAN), also known as Istijaba. The crisis is said to be due to the tussle over the management of motor parks in the state. In March, the Lagos government suspended the activities of NURTW in motor parks after the Lagos chapter withdrew its membership of the union’s national body. Subsequently, the Lagos government named a 25-member committee to oversee the affairs of all motor parks and garages and appointed MC Oluomo as the chairman of the committee. Benjamin Hundeyin, Lagos police spokesperson, in a statement on Monday, said Alabi has met with MC Oluomo and Istijba over the recent violent clashes in the state. “The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, CP Abiodun Alabi, fdc, mnim, psc has warned that anyone person found fomenting trouble anywhere within Lagos state would be promptly apprehended and made to face the law,” the statement reads. “This warning has become imperative following incessant clashes, fracas and malicious damage to property recently experienced in some parts of Lagos State, mostly linked to the issues surrounding the management of motor parks within the state. “CP Alabi, who has met with the major contenders – Musiliu Akinsanya aka MC Oluomo and Azeez Abiola aka Istijaba – separately in his office, where he admonished them to prevail on their teeming followers to act within the confines of the law, is poised to ensure the security currently being enjoyed in Lagos State remains intact. “In line with this stance, all area commanders, divisional police officers (DPOs) and tactical commanders have been directed to deal decisively with anyone found instigating or causing a breach of peace within their respective areas of responsibility (AoR).”