Bashir Ahmad, personal assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on new media, has rejected the result of the primary election of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for Gaya/Ajingi/Albasu constituency of Kano state in the house of representatives. TheCable had reported how Ahmad lost to Mahmud Gaya, the lawmaker who currently represents the constituency in the house of representatives. Gaya polled 109 votes to secure the APC ticket for a second term in office, defeating Ahmad who polled 16 votes. In a statement on Saturday, Ahmad alleged that the primary election was not free and fair, and called for a fresh poll. “I hereby categorically reject the process and proceeds of the primary election conducted on 27th of May, 2022 to elect the All Progressives Congress (APC) flagbearer for the position of member House of Representatives for Albasu/Gaya/Ajingi Federal Constituency,” the statement reads. “I offered myself to serve my constituents as best I can and I would have been willing to accept whatever outcome if it was free, fair and credible. I am sad to say that what ensued at the venue of the primaries highly threatens the credibility and integrity the APC has built over two political cycles. It is therefore a great disservice to my people and our great party, to be silent about such injustice. “To the best of my knowledge, election at the primaries stage requires delegates to cast their votes and a winner emerges with the majority votes. It, therefore, implies that there could not have been any voting process that occurred considering majority of the delegates were neither allowed to vote nor even granted access to the venue. “No document that supposedly validates the election was signed by my agents because they were also denied access to the voting area. “On my arrival to the venue as an aspirant too, I was denied access to the voting area. My supporters who were around the premises for the primaries resisted the unjust treatment I was given, insisting on my entrance into the voting area. “Like I have consistently been saying, my ambition is not worth anybody’s life or safety, so at that time, I believed the best action to take was to vacate the premises in order to douse the friction and for the safety of the majority of delegates, my agents and my supporters who were being targeted by thugs. “I, therefore call on the stakeholders of our party, the APC, to as a matter of urgency, save the reputation of the party by insisting on the members of the electoral committee to conduct a fresh, free and fair election.” He thanked the delegates for their support and called on his supporters to remain calm. “I would also like to send my appreciation to my supporters who have always been with me from the onset. To be silent about the injustice we have experienced is to disappoint those supporters,” he said. “I implore all to be calm and remain the law-abiding citizens I know you to be because I still have faith in the APC that this spectacular blunder we have experienced on the 27th of May, 2022 shall be annulled and a credible primary election shall be conducted.”