The screening committee of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has disqualified Valentine Ozigbo from contesting the 2023 senatorial seat on its platform. Ozigbo, who was the candidate of the PDP in the 2021 Anambra governorship election, was seeking to contest the state’s south senatorial district election in 2023. The screening panel also disqualified two other hopefuls — Chuma Nzeribe and Obinna Uzor. According to a report by the five-member screening committee chaired by Victor Okorie, Ozigbo was disqualified because he submitted his expression of interest and nomination forms after the deadline set by the party. “Ozigbo told the committee that he was awaiting the Supreme Court Judgment in SC/CV/240/2022 and SC /CV/241/2022, that if the Supreme Court annuls the election he would become the Governor,” the report reads. “On that basis, he concluded that there would be no need to submit the Senatorial form within the specified time, on April 27, the Supreme Court upheld the contemplated litigation. Unfortunately, by the time he submitted the Form, he was already out of time,” it stated. Nzeribe was barred by the panel on the premise that he had been declared wanted by a court of competent jurisdiction. “Hon. Chuman Nzeribe was admitted to bail, after he pleaded not guilty to the charges on 16th December 2020, he subsequently breached the bail terms and jumped bail,” the report said. “This necessitated the Court on 21 March 2022 to make the Orders under reference, to wit: “that the bail of the accused person (Hon. Chuma Nzeribe) has been abused and breached as it related to the conditions. “The said bail being contractual between the court and the accused person having been breached, is hereby revoked, Bench Warrant is hereby issued against the said Hon. Chuma Nzeribe for his arrest. “The above orders showed that the Hon. Nzeribe Chukwumaeze Marcellinus is a wanted fellow, against whom a Bench Warrant has been issued, for his arrest.” Uzoh, on the other hand, was ruled ineligible to run for the seat because he lied to the committee. “In column 12 of the nomination form, the question was asked if he had ever been tried by any court of law and he answered in the negative, suggesting that he had never been tried by any court of law,” the committee’s report said about Uzoh. “We have in our possession, a charge before the Federal High Court Abuja, in charge No, FHC/ABJ/CR/78/2020, between FRN v. Eziafa Samuel Enwedo & Obinna Uzoh. “The above shows that the aspirant deliberately failed to disclose the facts of this charge, his arraignment and trial. He was asked if he had been indicted by a Court or Tribunal. He answered in the negative, but the facts available show that he was admitted to bail on July 7 July 2020 by Hon. Justice O.E Abang.” Chris Ubah, Ezebiakwa Peace, Tony Nwoye, John Emeka, Uche Ekwunife and Stella Oduah were cleared to contest the senatorial seats in Anambra. About 49 hopefuls for the house of representatives seats were vetted and cleared by the committee.