The Progressive Project (TPP) says Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo will not relinquish his presidential bid for Bola Tinubu, a former governor of Lagos state. The TPP, an umbrella organisation of pro-Osinbajo support groups,  said this in reaction to assertions that Osinbajo was planning to step down for Tinubu. In a statement on Sunday, Usman Aliyu Usman, TPP director of operations, said the insinuations are false. “Unfortunately, one of these came from Mr. Daniel Bwala, an aide to Deputy Senate President, Senator Omo-Agege who currently appears to moonlight as spokesman for the Bola Tinubu campaign,” Usman said. “Specifically, without any proof, Mr. Bwala started circulating a video clip with claims that Professor Yemi Osinbajo is ‘allegedly planning to step down for Asiwaju’; Mr. Bwala had no evidence and he ought to know better than going to town with such. “Without doubt, Professor Yemi Osinbajo is still riding high in the race and our decision not to interfere in some camps’ deliberate spread of illusion and untruths is only motivated by our genuine confidence in our candidate’s prospects. “As stated long ago, no group linked to TPP will join any individual or group in playing gutter politics or smearing others but we need to unequivocally state that Professor Yemi Osinbajo is not contemplating any measure of capitulation to any candidate. “While we are sworn to total allegiance to the constitution, patriotic values and the spirit of good sportsmanship, we denounce the misleading information and unbecoming tricks that some supporters in other presidential candidates’ camps embrace so eagerly. “In the interest of the nation and its democracy, TPP appeals to all aspirants and supporters at all levels to learn from the focused and principled campaign methods of Professor Osinbajo and his supporters whose collective determination towards actualizing Nigeria’s enduring greatness is a cause that genuinely deserves the support of all patriots.” The TPP director said Nigerians and party members would rejoice when Osinbajo picks the party’s ticket after the primary poll.