Abdul-Ahmed Mustapha, a Lagos governorship hopeful, has asked the national working committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to nullify the state’s governorship primary. On Thursday, Mustapha and Wale Oluwo, another aspirant, were absent at the venue as Babajide Sanwo-Olu, governor of Lagos, secured the APC ticket to bid for a second term in office. Ahmed Yuguda, chairman of the Lagos APC primary electoral committee, said only the governor was cleared to participate in the primary. Speaking on the development in a statement on Sunday, Mustapha said he didn’t get adequate information on the electoral process. “I strongly request that the exercise be nullified and a new primary conducted in a free, fair and transparent manner in the state,” NAN quoted him as saying. “The All Progressives Congress (APC) is a beacon of truth and hope for us and future generations. “Lagos residents should not perceive such a high level of impunity as a modus operandi in the party’s operations. All Progressives Congress (APC) must take the proper steps to protect the image of the party. “The information should have been before the gubernatorial congress on May 26. I had the impression that all was well and continued with my consultations from ward to ward basis in the state. “My profile during the consultation increased exponentially amongst delegates, party faithful and the good people of Lagos State at large. I made several efforts to get the process details at the national and the state party headquarters, but all actions met brick walls. “None of the details requested nor the materials listed was made available to me. “I now believed the silence and exclusion were deliberate and calculated to technically shut me out of the race and trample upon my rights with gross impunity. “On getting to the Mobolaji Johnson Arena through speculation on May 26, I was turned back at Onikan Stadium’s gate despite introducing myself as a gubernatorial aspirant to the security men on duty. “Efforts to get the State and National officials were unsuccessful until I finally reached Dr Mohammed Bashir, (Lagos Committee Secretary). “He (Bashir) claimed that I was not cleared to participate in the election. This information was news to me as I heard it for the first time. “I have raised an appeal despite the difficulties encountered along the process.”