A coalition of Peter Obi support groups has fixed Saturday to hold a one-million-citizen march for the former governor of Anambra and presidential hopeful. In a statement on Friday, Marcel Ngogbehei, chairman of the coalition, said the exercise is to show solidarity and support for “our principal’s divine mandate” and to ask Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) delegates to vote for him. Ngogbehei said the march would be held across the country, adding that they have obtained the necessary permission for the event. “We as support groups for Peter Obi are organizing a One-Million-Man March on Saturday, May 21, 2022, across the 36 States of the federation and FCT in a bid to show maximum solidarity, love, and support for our principal’s divine mandate for the 2023 presidency,” he said. “The one million man march is to ensure that Nigerians of like-minds come out en masse in all the states of the federation and FCT in solidarity with the presidential aspirant. “The one million-man-march is anchored by Coalition for Peter Obi (CPO), which is made up of more than a dozen different support groups for Mr Peter Obi. “All supporters of Peter Obi will participate fully in the march all over Nigeria. The one-million-match is a show of solidarity and love for the credible candidature of Mr Peter Obi. “Various routes have been chosen for the march in all the 36 States and FCT. The march will start by 10:00 am prompt and we have obtained police permits to ensure security. “The take-off points for all states have been shared on various social media platforms, and all great supporters of Peter Obi should reach out to their respective coordinators and WhatsApp group admins to ensure familiarity and easy locations to the routes. “This is a peaceful solidarity march, and all are encouraged to portray a patriotic spirit, be of good conduct and avoid actions that will give us bad names, neither should we allow hoodlums to hijack our peaceful march. Let’s be very conscious and alert in the exercise.” Some of the groups include Peter Obi Support Network (POSN), Like Minds for Peter Obi (LMPO), Nigeria Needs Peter Obi (NNPO), TakeBackNaija (TBN), Women for Peter Obi (WPO), Associates of Peter Obi (APO), Peter Obi FC (POFC) and Peter Obi movement for president (POMP).