The General Ibrahim Attahiru Foundation, a non-governmental organisation, has launched a book on the life of Ibrahim Attahiru, the late chief of army staff. On May 21, 2021, TheCable reported that Attahiru who was on his way to Kaduna to attend the passing out parade of 80RRI in Depot Nigerian Army died alongside 10 officers in an aircraft crash. He was just four months into his tenure. The book titled ‘The Man, The Soldier, The Patriot’ was written by Niran Adedokun, a public relations practitioner and lawyer, and published by Cable Books, an arm of Cable Newspapers Limited. Speaking during the launch in Abuja on Saturday, Adedokun said he was privileged to have been invited to write about the life of Attahiru whom he described as “a true Nigerian hero”. He said the book is such that anyone who reads it will find some inspiration and understand that integrity and love for one’s country is essential. “I was invited to do the book by General Ibrahim Attahiru Foundation and now with the benefit of hindsight, I feel very privileged to have been invited to do the book because I didn’t know General Attahiru beyond what I read about him in the media until his passing,” he said. “By the time I started doing the book I discovered that he was indeed a true Nigerian hero whose life inspired a lot of people and I find it a privilege to have been invited to document his life in such a way that everyone who reads will find inspiration about Nigeria.” When asked what is the key takeaway from the book, Adedokun said “that no matter what it is, it’s good to be a person of integrity, to love your country, to love the fellow human being. Whether you are alive or dead, people will one day recognise those good things that you have done”. He said he hopes the current administration effectively carries on Attahiru’s mandate, adding that “he seemed to have the determination, he seemed to know what to do about security in Nigeria. I don’t think much has changed after his administration. The best I can say is that I hope that the people who succeeded him are following in the path that he charted for the army”. Fati Attahiru, wife of the late army chief, said her husband will continue to make his mark through the foundation and that she hopes it inspires her three little girls and other young Nigerians to serve the country like Attahiru did. “It is truly not how long you live but how well. As evidently my dear husband made his mark and will continue to through the impact that this foundation intends to make,” she said. “The General Ibrahim Attahiru Foundation was born out of the need to uphold his ideals and principles but more importantly for my three little girls and young Nigerians to have the will to proudly serve their country with all their might like he did and believe that their labour shall never be in vain.” During the launch, the Attahiru Foundation also premiered the ‘Ibrahim Attahiru, a Soldier’s Soldier’ documentary produced by Adeola Osunkojo on the life and times of the late army chief.