Muhammad Sani Abdullahi, better known as Dattijo, an ex-chief of staff to the Kaduna governor and former commissioner for budget and planning, has won the All Progressives Congress (APC) ticket to represent Kaduna central senatorial district. Dattijo had, in March, announced his intention to contest the governorship of the state and had subsequently resigned from his position as commissioner. In early May, however, Dattijo said Nasir el-Rufai, governor of Kaduna, had asked governorship hopefuls to support Uba Sani, adding that el-Rufai had also asked him to pick up the form for the senatorial seat. At the election which held at Umaru Musa Yar’adua hall in Kaduna, Dattijo emerged victorious after his two opponents, Usman Sani and Hajia Rabi Salisu withdrew from the contest shortly before the poll. Announcing the result, Mohammed Bayero, the returning officer, said there were 405 delegates from the seven LGAs that make up the senatorial district, but 396 delegates showed up for the election and all were accredited. Dattijo scored a total of 388 votes, while eight votes were invalid. Speaking after his declaration as the winner, he expressed appreciation to the aspirants who withdrew from the contest and solicited their support to ensure the party becomes victorious at the general election. UMAHI’S BROTHER GETS TICKET IN EBONYI Austin Umahi, brother to Dave Umahi, governor of Ebonyi, clinched the APC ticket for Ebonyi south senatorial zone. In the primary held at Afikpo north LG on Saturday, Umahi polled 279 votes, while Ann Agom-Eze, a former women leader of APC, got the remaining five votes. Austin had defected to the APC alongside his brother in November 2020. In his remarks, he appreciated the delegates for choosing him. Muhammad Usman, chairman of the APC committee for the primary, also commended the delegates for their orderly conduct, adding that such atmosphere produced a credible exercise. BETARA CLINCHES TICKET IN BORNO Meanwhile, Muktar Aliyu Betara, a member of the house of representatives, has won the APC ticket to contest Biu/Kwaya Kusar/Shani/Bayo constituency federal constituency in the 2023 polls. The constituency is made up of four LGAs in Borno state. Betara is the chairman of the house of representatives committee on appropriations. All delegates who participated in the exercise voted for him and the total number of votes cast in the four LGAs came to 194. Speaking after the exercise, the lawmaker thanked his constituents and promised to do more for them through scholarships, infrastructure and skills acquisition programmes among others.