So much immediately becomes possible when bettering humanity lies at the center of our essence, for this priceless subject begins all true meaningful living and possibilities. And Susan Biali adds some thoughts trail that when you set your sights on what may seem impossible, you somehow live your way into much more than you ever dreamed could be true for you. The foregoing is immediately corroborated by the great boxer, Muhammad Ali, as he confidently asserts that the impossible is not a fact. It’s an opinion. It wasn’t until September 2003 that the first Internet-ready satellite for consumers was launched by Eutelsat. This completely makes the internet and the world of opportunities that go with it possible from any part of the world, almost instantaneously. Satellite Internet Technology (SIT) is simply wireless internet transmitted down from satellites in orbit around the Earth. It is very different from land-based internet services such as cable or digital subscriber line (DSL), which pushes data through wires. Satellite Internet service, which makes use of radio waves to communicate with satellites, provides high-speed Internet access to locations where wired, fiber, and cable options are not available. This positions satellites as the go-to platform for the delivery of broadband Internet services to remote customers in the hitherto under-served regions. Noteworthy, that some of the SIT direct applications include, high-speed home or office internet connection, disaster or emergency management applications, on-board Wi-Fi connectivity for commercial aircraft and private jets, education and infrastructure development projects in rural areas of developing countries, research persons, and scientists make use of satellite internet in very cold regions and oceans, health, and safety emergency alarm system for ship and aircraft, media streaming and on-demand video, offers the future for the internet of things (IoT) applications, weather broadcasting stations in high altitude mountains, and long-distance vehicles and trucks among others. Furthermore, satellite communication companies have done a combined over $15.4 billion in 624 funding rounds to date. It is impressive to note that such an amount only tells us the huge potential that investors see in that space and why you and I need to approach it more seriously. Apogeo Space, Agrvision, and Starlink are among the top-performing satellite internet businesses. Firstly, Apogeo Space, formerly GP Advanced Projects, is a new space company that seeks to build a constellation of nanosatellites capable of providing Internet of Things (IoT) connectivity to everyone, everywhere. As an Italian startup founded in 2015, they provide consulting and management support and innovative satellite solutions in both space and non-space markets. Apogeo raised 5 million euros in their seed stage from Primo Ventures on May 25, 2022. This helps to deepen their spread, as SIT offers lasting reach to the several million who may never discover the beauty that lies within the waves. The second on our list for consideration is Agrvision. It is a unified advanced agriculture data collection and analytics platform, powered by artificial intelligence, machine learning, and advanced analytics for better smart data-driven agriculture crops and forests monitoring, delivered through customized, convenient easy-to-use digital channels. They offer comprehensive, highly scalable agri-tech data-powered solutions that accurately collect and process remotely sensed data, performs advanced analytics, and quickly visualize and surface actionable insights. Last but not the least was Starlink, which promises speeds between 50 and 150Mbps at present, with impressive latency of between 20-40ms, depending on where customers are connecting from. The network is designed, owned, and operated by SpaceX, the world’s leading provider of launch services. SpaceX prides itself as the first private company to have transported astronauts to and from the international space station, and the first and only company to complete a wholly private mission to orbit. As such, they have committed immensely to maintaining a safe orbital environment, protecting human spaceflight, and ensuring the environment is kept sustainable for future missions to Earth orbit and beyond – truly, impossible is nothing. SpaceX has raised a total of $9.3 billion in funding over 61 rounds. Their latest funding was raised on May 24, 2022, from a Venture-Series. The company is funded by 66 investors, with NASA and Stack Capital being the most recent ones. It had a post-money valuation in the range of $10 billion-plus as of Aug 25, 2021, according to PrivCo. We see clearly among other things why it can do amazing things through its Starlink, which seeks to democratize satellite internet technology and open humanity up to a whole new world of amazing opportunities. Pertinent, however, to note that the connectivity internet provides requires speed for myriads of benefits, which include, easier collaboration, improved customer service experience, faster online tools response, much better workplace harmony, and swifter transactions, to mention a few. SIT will enhance IoT, data analytics, and several other emerging technologies due to the connection simplicity it offers subscribers from everywhere, anytime. Every individual can plug into the pool. In addition, it is quite fascinating that the population numbers that a country like Nigeria provides, its population density (226 per sq km – concentration of individuals within a space, 6 times that of the United States – 36 per sq km), alongside its predominantly youth demography, makes it a perfect fit for any serious company looking to spin a fortune while making an impact from good service provision. It will be safe to conclude that direct-to-satellite communication will provide immense opportunities to nurture emerging technologies, and especially that impossibility only lies in the realms of thought, for only the individual can say whether or not it is possible. Just as Nelson Mandela also quipped that it always seems impossible until it’s done; as every noble work is at first impossible. Thank you for the investment in time. Please follow me on Medium: https://medium.com/@roariyo and LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/olufemi-ariyo-923ba6130/