The National Pension Commission (PenCom) has asked retirement savings account (RSA) holders to visit any branch of their pension fund administrators (PFAs) to participate in the ongoing data recapture exercise (DRE). The commission said this in a statement issued on Thursday. It said the exercise was for both active contributors and retirees whose data have not been recaptured. “The DRE is in compliance with the directive of the Federal Government that all data generating organisations should harmonise their databases with the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC),” the statement reads. “It is also consistent with the need to have a credible database of all RSA holders in Nigeria.” PenCom urged all active contributors to visit their PFAs and provide the following documents to complete the data recapture: staff identity card or any one of the following: national driver’s license; or permanent voter’s card (PVC); or international passport (mandatory for non-Nigerians); enrolment slip issued by NIMC; birth certificate or sworn affidavit of age declaration. Retirees, who are either on programmed withdrawal or annuity, are expected to present their national driver’s license or any one of the following: PVC; or international passport (mandatory for non-Nigerians) of enrolment Slip issued by NIMC or a letter of retirement issued by the employer to the retiree. It further directed all RSA holders, who have had a name change (either their surnames or first names or both after registration) to present the following documents to their PFAs: marriage certificate (only applicable in the case of marriage), newspaper publication for change of name, sworn affidavit, confirmation letter for change of name from employer (if still in employment). “All PFAs have been directed by PenCom to issue Acknowledgement Slips to RSA holders who submit complete documents for their data recapture,” PenCom said. “The RSA holders will be notified of the status of their data recapture (successful or not successful) within five working days of submission of documents.” PenCom added that two agents, Payone Solution Systems Limited and Afritech Multi-Concept Limited, have been engaged by PFAs to carry out the DRE. According to the commission, the agents are authorised to establish data recapture centres. It said RSA holders are allowed to have their data recaptured at such centres by the agents (if they are unable to visit the offices of their PFAs).