The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), in multiple operations, arrested two pregnant women and a barber for alleged drug trafficking. According to a statement by Femi Babafemi, the agency’s spokesperson, the suspects were arrested by operatives at Murtala Muhammed International Airport in Lagos. Babafemi said the barber, Nworie Chikwendu, was arrested with four parcels of cocaine concealed in two pairs of slippers. He said the suspect confessed that he was offered N2 million by a friend for the delivery of the drugs in Nigeria. “During a thorough search of his luggage, two parcels of cocaine were concealed in a pair of brown slippers hidden in his ox blood backpack were discovered. A further search of the pair of black slippers worn by the suspect also led to the recovery of additional two parcels of cocaine built into the soles of his foot wears, bringing the total to four parcels weighing 800grams,” Babafemi said. “When undergoing preliminary interview, Nworie who claimed to be a barber in Sao Paulo, said he came to Nigeria for the burial of his father. He confessed he decided to get into the criminal act because his trip was sponsored by his Brazil-based friend who gave him the drug to deliver in Lagos for a fee of N2, 000, 000.” The NDLEA spokesman Seun Babatunde, a pregnant woman, was arrested in Iyana Ipaja area of Lagos on May 4, after seven parcels of cannabis and a sachet of ecstasy hidden in cans of alcholic drinks were intercepted. “A freight agent who brought the consignment for export to Dubai, UAE, Shola Ogunrinde was immediately arrested while a follow up operation led to the arrest of a pregnant woman, Mrs. Seun Babatunde, who operates an alcohol joint in Pleasure area of Iyana Ipaja,” the agency spokesman said. “When the cartons were opened in the presence of the agent and the pregnant owner, seven parcels of cannabis and a sachet of ecstasy drug (MDMA) were found concealed inside Cans of black bullet alcoholic drinks. In her confession, Mrs. Babatunde claimed the drugs were being sent to her husband who lives in Dubai.” The NDLEA spokesman said Gloria Asibor, another pregnant woman, was arrested on May 5, while attempting to travel through Turkish airline flight with a luggage containing high dosage of tramadol concealed in crayfish. He said the operatives discovered that Asibor had in her luggage 300 tablets of 200mg and 225mg of the illicit drug.