The Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) has asked the federal government to take “necessary action” against the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) over the killings in the south-east. The south-east geopolitical zone, especially Anambra state, has recorded a spate of violence, resulting in killings and the destruction of properties. The police blamed the attacks on the activities of IPOB and its militant outfit, Eastern Security Network (ESN). But IPOB has repeatedly denied involvement in the attacks in the zone. Last weekend, a woman identified as Harira Jubril and her four children were killed by gunmen in Orumba north LGA of Anambra. The deceased were from the northern part of the country. Reacting to the incident, Musa Saidu,  chieftain of the ACF, in a statement on Saturday, alleged that innocent people are being attacked daily by IPOB in the south-east. Saidu, who is also the leader of Arewa community in south-south and south-east, asked the Anambra state government to compensate the family of Harira Jubril. “The federal government must take necessary action against IPOB, the situation is getting out of hand. Many innocent people are being attacked daily by the group in the south-east,” NAN quoted Saidu. “In fact we have documentary evidence on killings by IPOB across the South East from 1992 to date and most of the victims are our people, the security agencies are aware of this. “We condemn in total, the cold blood murder of Fatima Jubril and her four children and we urge security agencies to go after the killers. The lady was killed without any provocation. “We call on the Anambra government to pay compensation to her family and ensure that the killers are brought to book. “The federal government must also take necessary action against IPOB, the situation is getting out of hand, as such immediate action must be taken to prevent reprisal. “We commend Buhari for the verbal condemnation, but this is not enough, he must take necessary actions to stop recurring attacks on northerners by IPOB. “The Arewa community in the south has lodged several complaints on persistent IPOB attacks on northerners in the south-east without response. “We have reached out to the Northern Governors Forum, the Sultan of Sokoto and some eminent northern elders, but the situation has continued unabated. “ We believe in the unity of this country, therefore, we appeal to our people to remain calm and law abiding.”