Many residents of three communities in Munya LGA of Niger state have reportedly fled into the forest following an attack by gunmen. The gunmen were said to have attacked Dandaudu, Gidan Mangoro, and Gini at about 2:30 pm on Monday. Speaking with TheCable via telephone, Dantala Noma, a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) stakeholder in Munya, said the gunmen gained access to the village via the main Sarkin Pawa road which connects Niger to Kaduna state. He said the gunmen operated till late at night, kidnapping at least three residents and carting away several cattle. “Our community is on fire. They first invaded Dandaudu village before they went round other villages in Munya LGA,” he said. “They didn’t come through the forest; they used the major road to Sarkin Pawa. They came on several motorcycles and operated freely on the roads before they entered the villages. “It is 10 pm already and they are still operating in the village. They have gathered a significant number of cattle, some taken from other villages they raided and have kidnapped three persons from three different villages. “They kidnapped one person identified as Usman from Unguwan Mangoro, they took two other persons from Dandaudu and Gini, they are still with them. “There have been no security operatives there. Even in Maraban Dandaudu where there used to be some security operatives, they have been taken away. We don’t know what happened. “Currently, many residents have fled into the forest.” Garba Mohammed, chairman of Munya LGA, confirmed the attack, adding that the gunmen killed a Fulani man whose cattle they seized. “We heard information yesterday that the gunmen were gathering around Kampana. I informed the commissioner of local government and they assured me they will send down some Mopol police officers but while in the process, we heard they had left the area and had invaded Dandaudu village. “They stole food items and killed a Fulani man whose cattle was among those that were seized. As I speak with you, they are still in the village this morning struggling to move the stolen cattle.”