Sam Amadi, former chairman of the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), says there will be confusion if President Muhammadu Buhari does not sign the electoral act amendment bill. On Tuesday, the senate passed a bill allowing all statutory delegates to vote in the primary election or convention of political parties. Ovie Omo-Agege, deputy senate president and sponsor of the bill, said the error was “unintended”. Section 84(8) of the current electoral act of 2022 does not allow statutory delegates to participate in conventions of political parties. Speaking with journalists in Abuja on Friday, Amadi, director of the Abuja School of Social and Political Thought, said the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) should provide a guideline that would govern the primary poll of political parties. “The electoral act came in at a point where everyone did not know what to expect. The fact is that there must be a clear guideline INEC is a regulator who interprets the act,” he said. “INEC is the one who needs to provide the first interpretation of what the electoral act says. There is a clear confusion, if the president does not sign the electoral act before Saturday which is a possibility – what is the interpretation of section 84(8). “I have argued that the act makes only delegates elected for the purpose of electing candidates in congress or convention recognised to vote. There is nothing like statutory delegates in the context of party leaders. “That section says the party that chooses the indirect primary must clearly establish its rules and procedures, the procedures for democratic election of delegates.” Also speaking, Kelechi Akabueze, a member of the Abuja political school, said INEC must ensure that the will of people is reflected in the outcome of the election. “INEC must ensure that the will of the people is reflected in the outcome of the election process,” he said. “INEC has the power to exclude anyone or any pace from elections. INEC must come up with guidelines for the election.”