The police command in Sokoto says two suspects have been arrested over their alleged involvement in the killing of a female student at the Shehu Shagari College of Education. The student, identified as Deborah Samuel, was said to have been attacked by a mob over remarks considered to be an insult to Prophet Mohammed. Videos of the student being stoned and beaten with sticks were shared on social media, and the incident was reported to have occurred in the early hours of Thursday. In a statement on the incident, Sanusi Abubakar, spokesman of the Sokoto police command, said operatives have been deployed to the area. “At about 0900hrs, a distress call was received from Shehu Shagari College of Education, Sokoto, stating that students were rioting over one female student named Deborah Samuel, a level two student, who was accused of making a social media post that blasphemed the holy prophet Muhammad (SAW),” the statement reads. “Students forcefully removed the victim from the security room where she was hidden by the school authorities, killed her and burnt the building. “The students banded together with miscreants and barricaded the Sokoto/Jega road. “Upon receiving the information, the DC Operations led a team of policemen and all other operational commanders in the state to the school where the road was cleared and the situation was brought under control. “Two students were arrested in connection with the crime committed. “The school has been closed down by the school authority, and policemen were deployed to give tight security coverage. “The Commissioner of Police, Sokoto State Command, CP Kamaldeen Kola Okunlola fdc, mnim, is appealing to members of the public to go about their lawful activities and should not panic as the situation is under control. “Meanwhile, the suspects in the viral video on Twitter were spotted and will be nailed soon.” Earlier on Thursday, Muhammadu Abubakar, the Sultan of Sokoto, condemned the incident and urged security operatives to ensure that the perpetrators are apprehended. In a statement by Sa’idu Maccido, secretary of the sultanate council, the Sultan also urged the public to “remain calm and ensure peaceful co-exiatence among all people of the state and nation”.