There is tension around Minna, the Niger capital, following an attack by gunmen on communities in the area over the weekend. The gunmen were said to have attacked Mutun-Daya — which connects the state capital to Gwada — as well as Gunu, Zumba and Kuta, the headquarters of Shiroro LGA where many internally displaced persons (IDPs) run to for safety. Speaking with TheCable, Abdul Ahmed, a resident of Minna, said his wife who went for a wedding was trapped in Nakomi, a village near Gunu, when the incident happened. According to him, his wife had to flee with other residents who escaped into the bush during the attack, which occurred on Sunday. “My wife went for a wedding in Nakomi village when the attack happened. She said residents from neighbouring villages called to inform them that the gunmen had left Gunu and were heading towards Nakomi,” he said. “They all left the village and escaped into the forest. My wife was able to return to Minna, but she said some residents are still stuck in the bush.” Wasiu Abiodun, police spokesperson in the state, confirmed the attack in a statement on Monday. Abiodun said a joint security tactical team engaged in a gun duel with the attackers, adding that the perpetrators divided themselves into groups across three LGAs. “On 15/05/2022 at about 0700hrs, information was received that suspected armed bandits were sighted at Zazagha and Injita villages of Munya LGA,” the statement reads. “Joint security tactical teams were immediately drafted to the area, and discovered that the bandits had divided themselves into different groups, as some of the bandits had moved to Fuka and Daza villages of Munya LGA. “The tactical teams advanced to these areas where the hoodlums were fiercely engaged in gun battle and repelled. “The hoodlums later extended to Gwalo village, K/koro area of Paikoro LGA and the joint team responded swiftly, with recovery of cattle from the bandits. “Reinforcements were sent to Mutun-Daya village, via Gwada, Shiroro LGA, upon the receipt of information that another group of bandits were sighted in the area. “The bandits were equally engaged in a gun duel and some of them were neutralised, while others escaped into the forest with gunshot injuries.” He added that Monday Kuryas, commissioner of police in the state, also led an additional tactical reinforcement team from Minna to Sarkin-Pawa in Munya LGA.