Pauline Tallen, minister of women affairs, has pulled out of the Plateau south senatorial race. The minister, in a statement, said she voluntarily stepped down from the senatorial race after consulting widely with her family and close associates. “I relish the opportunity to serve Nigerian Women in my capacity as Minister of Women Affairs under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR. Consequently, I wish to inform you all that I have to withdraw from running for the Senatorial seat,” the statement reads. “As a humble servant of Nigerian Women, I am overwhelmed by the patriotism and loyalty displayed by Women and I remain resolute to ride on these foundations to continue to build solid structures for strategic progress. Tallen also thanked Aisha Buhari, first lady, the team from her constituency, and well-wishers for their support. “So to all Nigerian Women and young girls who have raised concerns as to what next, rest assured that I, Dame Pauline K. Tallen, OFR, KSG have not submitted any resignation letter and therefore, it is my decision not to go ahead with this request but carry on as the Minister of Women Affairs. I am confident of our commitment to carry on our advocacy and determination to get more Women to participate in politics,” the statement reads. “Once again I thank the good people of Plateau State Southern Senatorial District and appeal to them to continue to support the incumbent Senator, Prof. Nora Daduut to sustain Women’s political force in the state and in Nigeria.” President Muhammadu Buhari had asked all members of his cabinet seeking elective office to resign on or before May 16. Other ministers seeking elective offices include Rotimi Amaechi, Godswill Akpabio, Timipre Sylva, Chris Ngige, Uche Ogah, Ogbonnaya Onu and Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba. Owing to the president’s directive, some ministers had tendered their resignation, while the president met with the outgoing cabinet members. After the meeting, Abubakar Malami, attorney-general of the federation (AGF), withdrew from the 2023 Kebbi governorship race while Chris Ngige, minister of labour and employment, also announced his withdrawal from the 2023 presidential race.