St. Ives Communications, a gender-focused media group, is looking to recruit a female project director to coordinate its programmes. The media group said the applicant must be passionate about women’s rights, economic growth, and social progress. The company said the contract will be for three years and can be renewed. Applicants are expected to have a degree in the business-related management field and five years experience in project management. St. Ives Communications said applicants must be experienced in community development and the ideal candidate is expected to be a team player, excellent verbal and written communicator with good presentation and organisational skills as well as proficiency in Word, PowerPoint, Outlook, and Excel. “The project manager is expected to be responsible for the development and execution of programmes in each project from concept note to implementation. Strategic planning, budgeting, monitoring, and evaluating outcomes with attention to concrete objectives. Technical and programmatic leadership,” the company said. “Ensure quality implementation of programs and activities to achieve desired outcomes. Ensures all project activities comply with donor policies and regulations. “Oversees the preparation and submission of annual activity-based project budgets including monthly and quarterly financial reports. Management of programme budgets, work plans, monthly, interim and final narratives. Submit timely fund requests. “Lead, manage and motivate the teams to remain optimistic even when faced with challenges. Encourage good performance and values. Provide management support, supervision, and direction. Coordinate work with consultants and volunteers. “Ensures community participation, partners, and donor collaborations for smooth implementation of activities to achieve desired outcomes. Employs resourcefulness in project design, implementation, and monitoring. Troubleshoots project problems and implements creative solutions.” The project manager is expected to ensure that all implemented activities are relevant to the mission and vision of the organisation, and to identify and carry out fundraising strategies. Interested persons are required to apply with a resume to hr@voiceofwomen.ng. The email subject should read ‘Project Manager, Application’.