Femi Falana, human rights lawyer, has asked Nigerian workers to stop “agonising” about the country’s problems and participate in politics. Falana said this in a statement to commemorate 2022 Workers Day. He said the dividends of democracy promised by the ruling class have snowballed into “worsening insecurity, gross economic mismanagement and grand corruption”. Falana added that section 40 of the 1999 constitution gives workers the right to join the Labour Party (LP) for participation in electoral politics. “The dividend of democracy promised by the ruling class parties has turned out to be worsening insecurity, gross economic mismanagement and grand corruption,” the human right lawyer said. “Since the resolution of the labour movement to mobilise the oppressed people of Nigeria to get organised and participate in the electoral politics of the country is going to be questioned by the ruling class. “It is pertinent to point out that the fundamental right of workers to belong to the Labour Party is recognized by section 40 of the Nigerian Constitution which provides that “every person shall be entitled to assembly freely and associate with other persons, and in particular he may form or belong to any political party, trade union or any association for the protection of his interests.” “Notwithstanding that the Constitution is silent on the right of workers in the private sector to participate in politics, it is submitted that they are equally entitled to contest elections without any legal entanglement. “However, like civil servants, private sector workers who wish to contest elections are advised, subject to agreements reached with their employers, and/or the applicable conditions of service, to resign their positions or ask for leave of absence. “It is therefore incumbent on workers in the private and public sectors to stop agonising about the problems confronting the country. This is the time to get organised with other pro-labour, radical and human rights forces and insist that a new Nigeria is possible.”