Applications for fully-funded Chevening Scholarships to study for one-year master’s degrees at UK universities will open on August 2, 2022. In a Twitter post on Thursday, the scholarship programme announced that entries would be accepted for the 2023/2024 academic year till November 1, 2022. “We are thrilled to announce the dates for this year’s applications! Applications will open on 2 August and close on 1 November,” the tweet reads. “Who knows what you could achieve with a Chevening Scholarship? Start thinking about your application today!” We are thrilled to announce the dates for this year's applications! Applications will open on 2 August and close on 1 November. Who knows what you could achieve with a Chevening Scholarship? Start thinking about your application today! https://t.co/HG61vsrtdH — Chevening Awards (@CheveningFCDO) May 19, 2022  Chevening Scholarships is the UK government’s international scholarships programme aimed at developing global leaders. Funded by the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCO) and partner organisations, the scholarship offers financial support for individuals to study for a master’s degree at any UK university. The scholarship covers tuition fees, travel and a monthly stipend, plus more. Since 1983, over 50,000 professionals across the globe have studied in the UK through the programme, including more than 1,400 Nigerians who benefited from Chevening’s scholarships and fellowships. To be eligible for a Chevening scholarship, you must be a citizen of a Chevening-eligible country or territory,  return to your country of citizenship for a minimum of two years after your award has ended, have completed your undergraduate degree and all the prerequisites required to get admitted to a postgraduate programme at a UK university by the time you submit your application. Applicants are expected to have at least two years (equivalent to 2,800 hours) of work experience, must have applied to three different universities in the UK (ones that are approved by the programme) and must have received an offer letter from at least one of them. Interested applicants are expected to go through the scheme’s full eligibility requirements and ensure they meet the minimum work-experience conditions before submitting applications.