A Freudian slip or a moment of forgetfulness? Only Ayo Fayose, former governor of Ekiti state, can succinctly elucidate what he meant when he said he would defeat President Muhammdu Buhari if given the presidential ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Speaking on Saturday at the presidential primary of the PDP, Fayose said he has beaten incumbents in the past and he’d floor Buhari in a “landslide victory” — but interestingly, the president is not on the ballot for the 2023 election. Buhari, who is rounding off his second term, is not constitutionally permitted to run for another term. His party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), has also not yet held its primary to elect a presidential candidate. Hence, it is hard to fathom what exactly the former Ekiti governor was trying to convey when he made the comment. Presidential aspirant, Ayodele Fayose, is now addressing the delegates.#PDPPrimaries #PDPConvention pic.twitter.com/ugQShClHPj — Channels Television (@channelstv) May 28, 2022  “I want to assure that my speech will not be more than two to three minutes because it is not what you say, it is what we do or what we have done,” Fayose said while making his final pitch to delegates. “My name again is Ayodele Fayose Peter. I want to remind you that I was a two-term governor of Ekiti state and I defeated two incumbents at two different attempts. That means if given this opportunity I will defeat President Muhammadu Buhari in a landslide victory. “Let me remind you that If I were to be a prophet, I would be making a lot of money. I told you President Muhammadu Buhari has nothing to offer and the party — APC — is and will remain a party of people who never meant well for our country. “Therefore today I’m calling on all of you to equally remember that PDP should be the bigger picture. PDP should be the party, not what we want to tear into pieces. Whoever becomes the flagbearer today, we should be ready to work with him. Power comes only from God. I want to thank you for this opportunity I want to assure you if you give me an opportunity. I have a penchant for defeating [an] incumbent.”