President Muhammadu Buhari says the persons behind the “wild” killings in the south-east should expect a tough response from the security forces. Anambra, a state in the geopolitical zone, has recorded a spate of violence in the past few weeks, resulting in killings and the destruction of properties. Police authorities have attributed the attacks to activities of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and its militant outfit, Eastern Security Network (ESN). But IPOB has repeatedly denied involvement in the violent attacks in the zone. Three days ago, a woman identified as Harira Jubril and her four children were killed by gunmen in Orumba north LGA of Anambra. The deceased are from the northern part of the country. A gory video showing their bodies had appeared on social media platforms, eliciting criticism and condemnation. Commenting on the incident via his Twitter page, the president described the attacks as “wild” and “barbarous”. “I strongly condemn the wild, barbarous and wanton killings of innocent people in the South-East, as well as in other parts of Nigeria,” he said. “The perpetrators of these deeply distressing attacks should expect the toughest possible response from the security forces.” I strongly condemn the wild, barbarous and wanton killings of innocent people in the South-East, as well as in other parts of Nigeria. The perpetrators of these deeply distressing attacks should expect the toughest possible response from the security forces. — Muhammadu Buhari (@MBuhari) May 25, 2022  Meanwhile, Garba Shehu, presidential spokesperson, in a statement, warned against reprisals and the sharing of the videos. “The Presidency wishes to caution against any knee-jerk reactions, the creation of panic, disruption of lives and livelihoods, or even retaliatory violence following the viral videos of the alleged killings of non-indigenes by the Eastern Security Network (ESN) and its mother terrorist group, the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB),” the statement reads. “While expert agencies are now verifying the factuality and veracity of the claims that accompany the horrid pictures being circulated, we call on all citizens to avoid hasty steps or conclusions that could exacerbate the situation, and on the contrary keep to a line of conduct that will help the law to take its proper course “The presidency also cautions the public against the indiscriminate sharing of posts on social media so as to deny vested interests who seek to divide us and create disturbance the chance to do so.” Chukwuma Soludo, governor of Anambra, had earlier said the perpetrators of the killing will be found while describing the incident as “barbaric and unacceptable”. Harira and her children were laid to rest on Wednesday.