The Nigerian Correctional Service (NCoS) says Abba Kyari, suspended deputy commissioner of police (DCP), is safe in prison custody. A federal high court had, on March 28, remanded Kyari and four others at the Kuje correctional centre after their bail application was refused. However, Kyari had, on Thursday, approached the court with another application for bail on the grounds that his life is being threatened by co-inmates who were arrested by his team in the line of duty. A newspaper had also published an article alleging Kyari was attacked by his fellow inmates, and that the service is considering transfering the suspect to DSS custody. Reacting in a statement on Thursday, Francis Enobore, spokesman of the correctional service, described he publication as “fake news”. “The story is false, reckless and mischievous,” he said. “It is the handiwork of some jobless cheap recognition-seeking charlatans masquerading as newsmen, lacking in intellectual capacity to interrogate what they conjure or hear before feeding the public. “That the author is completely oblivious of where and how detention of a suspect originates speaks volume of his ineptitude and the much his story can be relied upon. “For the record, Abba Kyari is one of the over 800 inmates in the location where he is being kept. “However, notable individuals including ex-governors, ministers, senators and other celebrities of higher social status have passed through the same facility without any threat to their lives.” Enobore added that the authorities of the NCoS have no cause to request for the transfer of Kyari or any inmate to any other detention centre outside its jurisdiction. He added that Kyari is safe and sound and goes about his daily routine like any other inmate unharmed. “Those playing pranks with his detention are warned to desist from such unpatriotic acts as they may be asked, through formal litigation, to justify their statement,” the spokesman said. “The controller-general, NCoS, Haliru Nababa, is determined to continue to upscale inmates’ welfare, safe and humane custody with fervour. Therefore, he will not be distracted by inane publications.”