The Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) matchday 27 saw a total of 26 goals scored across various venues over the weekend. TheCable takes a look at how the twenty teams fared. Akwa United 1-1 Enyimba FC It was a stalemate between Akwa United and Enyimba in Uyo. Bello Babatunde netted the opener for Akwa United before Victor Mbaoma leveled up the scoreline for the George Finidi side at the dearth of full time. Shooting Stars 1-0 Niger Tornadoes Mose Omoduemuke’s 7th minute goal was the difference between 3SC and Niger Tornadoes at the Adamasingbe Stadium. Kano Pillars 2-1 Kwara United Kwara United drew the first blood in the 35th minute through Samad Kadiri’s goal. But Ifeanyi Eze and Ali Auwalu’s goals cancelled out the visitor’s first half advantage in the 51st and 58th minutes respectively. Lobi Stars 2-1 Katsina United Katsina United netted the opener in 45+2 minutes to get the visitors ahead. But goals in the second half from Endurance Edibiri and Barnabas Imenger secured all points for Ortom boys at the Aper Aku Stadium in Makurdi. Rivers United 5-0 MFM FC Relegation bound MFM were mauled by the current NPFL table topper 5-0. Goals from Nelson Esor (16’), George Akpabio (84’), Rafiu Ishaq (90+3’) and brace from Chijioke Akuneto (45’, 47’) respectively compounded the Church boys’ woes. Nasarawa United 2-1 Plateau United Nasarawa United secured the first goal in the 4th minute, thanks to Sunday Okereke. Chimezie Izuchukwu, however, leveled up for Plateau United in the 43rd minute before Chinedu Ohanachom scored the winner for the Lafia-based club ten minutes into the second half. Gombe United 1-0 Sunshine Stars Alege AbdulQuadr’s 18th minute strike was all Gombe needed to edge Sunshine Stars at the Pantami Stadium. Wikki Tourists 2-0 Dakkada FC Goals from Ridwan Adeshina and Fouad Ekelojuoti were enough for Wikki Torurists to beat Dakkada at the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa Stadium, Bauchi. Abia Warriors 2-0 Remo Stars On Saturday, Abia Warriors handed Remo Stars their eighth defeat of the season with a 2-0 win over the Gbenga Ogunbote’s wards. Rangers Int’l 3-1 Heartland FC Rangers International humbled fierce neighbours, Heartland 3-1 inside Awka City Stadium to complete a double over the ‘Naze Millionaires’ this season.