Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, governor of Kwara, says Rotimi Amaechi, presidential hopeful on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has done well on infrastructural development. He said this on Saturday when Amaechi visited Kwara to meet with APC stakeholders in the state on his presidential bid. Abdulrazaq commended Amaechi on his efforts as minister of transportation, adding that the latter’s vision will benefit Nigeria if he gets the party’s ticket. Describing him as the “most powerful minister in President Muhammadu Buhari’s cabinet”, the Kwara governor added that Amaechi’s efforts to boost rail transport put the country on the path to development. “As we all know, Chibuike Amaechi led our campaign to government house in Kwara state. He was a pillar of strength for the party. He delivered the party; he delivered on his mandate; that is why President Muhammadu Buhari has so much confidence in him,” Abdulrazaq said. “In terms of budget, no ministry has surpassed his own and that says a lot about his abilities. “For us in Kwara, we’ve seen his works, and if you take a look at Ilorin master plan, you would see where the plan for the new railway line comes into Ilorin, that has been designed with an ultra modern railway station. What we need to do is to look at his vision and what he has been able to do. “Before this administration took over, it took 10 hours for people to get to Lagos. But today, the Lagos-Ibadan expressway has been fixed by the Buhari government. But the most important infrastructure on that axis is the Lagos-Ibadan railway, which has been completed by the former transportation minister. “If his excellency, Chibuike Amaechi, had not resigned to contest for president, we would have seen the commencement of the Ibadan to Kaduna axis of the railway line. So, going to Lagos would have been just a piece of cake. “But, with the foundation he has laid, with the work done there, that is the reality that would come through in the next administration. So, it is now left for you (delegates) to decide whether this is the man (Amaechi) of vision, that should come and complete what he has started in terms of infrastructure. “What we need today in Nigeria is infrastructure. If we don’t have the necessary basic infrastructure, we will not be able to develop. You have seen the work he (Amaechi) has done in Rivers state as governor.” Addressing the delegates, Amaechi said his decision to contest the presidency was to offer dividends of democracy to the people. “I made up my mind to run for the presidency because I have something to offer, to see how working with you can make the change we all desire. But you cannot make that change if you don’t empower me by voting for me,” he said. Earlier, Amaechi paid a courtesy visit to the palace of Ibrahim Sulu-Gambari, the Emir of Ilorin. Describing him as “a man of proven ability”, the emir advised Amaechi to focus on working hard and leave the rest to Allah. He also advised Amaechi to work towards addressing insecurity if he is elected president.