The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) has ordered the deployment of additional operatives to control increased traffic experienced as a result of holiday trips. The federal government had declared Monday and Tuesday as public holidays for the Workers’ Day and Sallah celebration, respectively. According to a statement issued on Tuesday by Bisi Kazeem, FRSC public education officer, rescue teams are also expected to be on standby. “As the Eid-el-Fitr holiday-makers begin to travel back after the celebration, the Corps Marshal, Federal Road Safety Corps, Dr Boboye Oyeyemi, has ordered Commanding Officers to ensure effective deployment of personnel and other logistics to critical locations across the country for enhanced visibility and to combat gridlock that might hinder the smooth flow of traffic,” the statement reads. “The Corps Marshal handed out the directive to Zonal Commanding Officers, Sector Commanders, Corridor Commanders and Unit Commanders all over the country. “According to the order, patrol teams must remain on their routes till 1900HRS when traffic volume is expected to have reduced drastically, while rescue teams are to be on standby in all commands to take care of emergencies.” The FRSC corps marshal also said commanding officers must supervise the deployment of officers and logistics to identified critical locations. “In addition, to guarantee efficient monitoring of the critical routes, the Corps Marshal also directed that pictures of traffic situations from critical locations prone to traffic gridlock must be forwarded to the monitoring and control room at the headquarters to reassure management of the free movement of vehicles,” Oyeyemi said. “The identified critical locations are: Hawan Kibo, Mararaban Jos, Zuba Junction, Giri Junction, Gidan Waya, Iwo Road Roundabout, Sagamu Exchange, Ore/Ondo exchange, Oluku junction, Abia Tower, Odukpani Junction, Jebba, Mokwa, Gombe Town bypass, Jere, Tafa, Dikko U-Turn, and NATACO Junction. “Others include Kotonkarfe, Gwagwalada, Akungba Junction, Mowe, Ibafo, Ibuza Junction, Upper Iweka, Onitsha Head bridge, Ossisioma Junction, Benin bypass, Zariagi Junction, Okene township, Ewu Junction.” The FRSC corps marshal commended motorists and the general public for their cooperation in enhancing the smooth flow of traffic. He also urged the public to utilise the FRSC toll-free number, 122, “to report emergencies and gridlocks as well as tune to the National Traffic Radio 107.1FM for real-time traffic update”.