The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) says it will change the narrative of Nigerian workers if it returns to power in 2023. Debo Ologunagba, national publicity secretary of the PDP, made this known in a statement on Sunday to mark the International Workers Day. May 1 of every year is set aside to recognise and celebrate the contribution of workers globally. The PDP appreciated the patience of workers towards nation-building, “despite working under the APC-led administration that has no regard for Nigerians and particularly the workers”. “The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) lauds Nigerian workers for their patriotism, patience and determination towards nation-building in spite of the asphyxiating environment under the vicious, rudderless, inhumane and corrupt All Progressives Congress (APC)-led administration that has no regard for Nigerians and particularly the workers,” the statement reads. “It is lamentable that the arrogance in failure and insensitivity of the APC government towards the welfare of workers continue to dislocate our social order and cripple our major productive sectors with grave negative ripple effects on millions of families and the nation at large. “Such selfish inattentiveness, corruption and incompetence of the APC administration is responsible for the closure of our public universities as the government continues in its brazen failure to attend to the demands of striking university lecturers and millions of stranded university students in our country.” The PDP warned that the APC-led administration should not take workers’ “calmness and patriotism” as weakness, adding that the federal government should immediately attend to the demands of striking lecturers. “The PDP calls upon the federal government to immediately attend to the industrial action by lecturers in our public universities so as to halt an imminent collapse of our public education sector,” the party said. “Our Party however calls on the workers and indeed all Nigerians to remain calm and keep hope alive as the PDP takes strong steps to democratically return to power in 2023 to Rescue and Rebuild our nation from the misrule of the APC.”