The Kaduna government has banned protests related to religious activity in the state. Samuel Aruwan, the commissioner for internal security, said the ban became imperative “in view of moves by some unpatriotic elements to organise series of for-and-against protests related to a security development in one of the northern states”. The ban comes in the wake of unrest in Sokoto state over the arrest of the suspected killers of Deborah Samuel, a female student of Shehu Shagari College of Education. A mob killed Deborah over alleged blasphemy on Thursday. Her killing had sparked outrage and condemnation across the country, with Nigerians asking the government to fish out the perpetrators of the crime. Subsequently, the police command in Sokoto announced the arrest of two suspects in connection with the killing. But on Saturday morning, some Muslim youths in Sokoto took to the streets to protest against the arrest of the suspects. The Kaduna government said there are plans to organise similar protests in the state, hence the ban. “Governor Nasir Ahmad El-Rufai who has been briefed of the development has charged security agencies to ensure strict enforcement of this ban against any form of religious protest in the State,” the statement reads in part. “The Governor also charged religious leaders, community leaders and traditional rulers throughout the State to complement the efforts of government and security agencies towards the maintenance of peace and stability. “Security agencies have thus resolved that any attempt by individuals or groups to disrupt the peace and stability of the State, by way of religious protests, will not be condoned. Such protests will be promptly halted, and conveners prosecuted. “Citizens are implored to remain calm as they go about their lawful pursuits, and to immediately report any such activity or security concern to the Kaduna State Security Operations Room, on 09034000060 and 08170189999.” Aminu Tambuwal, governor of Sokoto, has imposed a 24-hour curfew on parts of the state following the violent protest.