President Muhammadu Buhari has endorsed the recommendation of setting up an African standby force against terrorism. According to Garba Shehu, presidential spokesman, Buhari endorsed the recommendation during the 16th African Union extraordinary session of the Assembly of African Union on Terrorism and Violent Extremism in Africa. The report on terrorism and violent extremism in Africa was presented by Moussa Mahamat, chairperson of the African Union Commission. The Nigerian president also called on leaders to muster the political will that will fuel synergy, enhance intelligence gathering and bring more urgency to tackling violent crimes. He said resources meant for the development of countries had been channelled into fighting violent crimes, leaving many governments with fewer options for investing in people to meet the sustainable development goals. Following the presentation of the report, Buhari highlighted four items for immediate action. “In the West African region, we are working very hard through the instrumentality of ECOWAS to combat terrorism,” Buhari was quoted as saying. “The Multi-National Joint Task Force in the Lake Chad region and the G5 in the Sahel have continued to degrade the insurgents by substantially reducing their capacity to inflict harm on our citizens. “Mr Chairman, these efforts, however, need to be strengthened and complemented by the African Union, through the African Union Peace and Security Architecture. “It is for this reason, Mr Chairperson, that we endorse the key recommendations contained in your report. Some of the recommendations which we believe should be implemented immediately include; “Increasing troop levels in situations of combating terrorism and enhancing intelligence capabilities of deployed troops, including improving the operational cooperation of contingents in the operation areas. “Ensuring the readiness of the African Standby Force for immediate response when a Member State is under terrorist threat. “Strengthening the fight against cybercrime, money laundering, drugs and arms trafficking, smuggling of persons and counterfeit goods, which facilitate terrorist financing. “Ensuring that specialized institutions like the African Centre for the Study and Research on Terrorism and AFRIPOL, are adequately resourced in order for them to effectively discharge their mandate.” Buhari also emphasised the need for political will to forge a “coordinated continental approach to tackling insecurity”. “The report is very enriching, resonating and it behoves us as the assembly of the African Union to show the political will and forge a coordinated coninental approach to tackling insecurity, as we must entrench peace and stability on our continent,” he said. According to the president, the recommendations, if implemented, will go a long way in increasing the capacity of affected states to respond to the threats posed by terrorists and violent extremists in their respective countries. The report looked at persistent threats, evaluated current response mechanisms, and decided on the specific actions and measures necessary to strengthen the collective security of member states facing terrorism and violent extremism.