Rotimi Amaechi, presidential hopeful, says creating jobs is a solution to crime. Amaechi was quoted by his media office as saying this when he met with the Bayelsa state traditional rulers council in Yenagoa on Sunday. The former governor of Rivers state said crime will be reduced when people have a source of income. “For me the solution to crime is to give people responsibility and make them have a source of revenue. Once people have a source of income, crime will reduce,” he said. “So, the solution to crime is to create jobs and create a source of revenue because if you don’t create that source of revenue for them, they would create for themselves. “If you don’t grow an economy that accommodates the people, that is inclusive and accommodates everybody, somebody who isn’t part of that economy will create one for himself.” Amaechi said if elected, he would pursue the reclamation of lands for Bayelsa people. “Your Majesty, I’m from the Niger Delta, I know the problem of the Niger Delta and I governed one of the States of the Niger Delta. So I come to you with the full knowledge of the Niger Delta with one who has governed the Niger Delta,” he said. “If given the opportunity to be President of Nigeria, I will reclaim land in Yenagoa to enable the people of Bayelsa to own lands with the support of the federal government. Your Majesty, I am home and I want your blessings, I want you to talk to our people to support me to be the president of the federal republic of Nigeria. “I assure you that if given the opportunity to serve our country, there shall be changes and there will be progress. I assure you that you’ll be of special interest to the federal government.” On his part, Bubaraye Dakolo Agada, chairman of the Bayelsa state council of traditional rulers, said Amaechi is experienced to be president “We are delighted to have you. You are an aspirant who has come to do the needful and become the candidate of APC and the President of Nigeria,” Agada said. “You are our son, I have never seen a resume or profile of your type. Two times Speaker, two times Governor and two times Minister, we must give you the needed support. “When you became governor, I admired the way you faced the security challenges in Rivers state and brought everything to control, your pedigree, your profile says a lot.”