The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) says its operatives have arrested one Bridget Emeka, identified as a 59-year-old resident who “heads a major cartel distributing drugs in Delta and its environs”. Femi Babafemi, NDLEA spokesperson, disclosed this in a statement on Tuesday. He said the suspect and her associates were arrested on Sunday during a raid by the agency’s operatives. Items said to have been recovered from her residence — which was also sealed — included guns, cartridges, mobile phones and drug paraphernalia. “The backbone of a major cartel distributing drugs in Delta and adjourning states was broken on Sunday, 15th May, following the arrest of a wanted 59-year-old drug baroness, Bridget Oghenekevwe Emeka, a.k.a. Mama, by operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, NDLEA, at her palatial mansion where she cooks and distributes crack cocaine, methamphetamine and other illicit substances,” the statement reads. “No fewer than nine of her staff and associates were arrested along with her in coordinated simultaneous operations at her expansive residence and drug bunks where she accommodates drug users and sells illicit substances to them and others in parts of Warri, Delta state. “Apart from various quantities of crack cocaine, methamphetamine, molly, and loud seized from her home and drug bunks, a pump action gun, 15 cartridges, documents, two cars, mobile phones, drug paraphernalia such as sodium bicarbonate and polythene wrappings were also recovered for further investigation. “While five of her staff that cook, cut, package and distribute the drugs were found in her house located at Favour Street, Otukutu, Effurun Warri, four of her associates were equally arrested at her drug bunks in other parts of the town during the raids by Strike Force officers of NDLEA supported by the military.” Babafemi said the suspect had been under surveillance for weeks after she was allegedly identified as a major distributor of illicit drugs in the state. “Some of the paraphernalia for making crack recovered from her house include: sodium bicarbonate, which is the main adulterant and recipe for making crack cocaine, as well as transparent nylon used in wrapping the finished product,” he added. According to the statement, Buba Marwa, chairman/chief executive of NDLEA, commended the officers of the agency involved in the raid as well as the armed forces for their “unwavering support”.