Lagos Talk 91.3 FM, a radio station, is set to host its first-ever town hall meeting on grassroots governance. The radio station made this known in a statement issued on Monday. Ifunanya Igwe, Lagos Talks programme director, said the town hall is aimed at bridging the gap between government and citizens. She said the focus of the event is necessary for the sustainability plan of Nigeria as a democratic nation. “The town hall meetings are also designed to support both government and citizens in building a new Nigeria and bridge the gap between the people and politicians. The topics discussed will vary as they will address burning issues within each local government area,” she said. “The subject of discussion is key to the sustainability plan of the nation and one we cannot do without in a democratic setting. “Good governance entails efficiency, accountability, equitability, inclusivity, responsiveness and political leaders are saddled with the responsibility of producing a leadership that should empower and inspire. “With this movement, Lagos Talks is optimistic that this experience will inspire a wide variety of stakeholders, particularly students from various learning institutions, as they become more critically aware of their roles in shaping and building the civil society of the future.” The town hall will host local government officials and other political leaders at the grassroots to address issues in local government areas. “Through this gathering, political leaders will get an unbiased and mutually beneficial platform where they can give account of their stewardship, while community members engage them in a question-and-answer session,” the statement reads. The event, which is scheduled to hold at Muson Centre, Lagos, has its theme as ‘closing the gap between the governed and the government’. Some of the guests expected include Gbolahan Olusegun Yishawu, member of Lagos state house of assembly, Eti-Osa constituency; Fuad Atanda-Lawal, chairman, Ikoyi-Obalende local council development area; Kunle Lawal; executive director, Electoral College, among others. According to Lagos Talks, admission to the event is FREE but registration is required and interested individuals may call 0809 2222 913 or send an email with their name, age and profession to events@lagostalks.com to reserve a seat.