The Nigeria Bar Association (NBA) has condemned the killing of Deborah Emmanuel, a female student of Shehu Shagari College of Education, and David Sunday, a sound engineer who was lynched in Lekki, Lagos state. In a statement issued on Tuesday, Olumide Akpata, NBA chairman, described the killings as “heinous”, noting that the perpetrators should be made to face the full wrath of the law. The NBA president said prompt and effective prosecution will “instil confidence in the citizens, promote accountability, and signpost the government’s commitment to the rule of law”. “The Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) is saddened by these developments and unequivocally condemns extra-judicial killings in any part of the country as reprehensible, barbaric and unacceptable,” Akpata said. “Our security agencies must do more to stem these ugly developments, and ensure that the perpetrators of these heinous acts, wherever or whoever they may be, are made to face the full wrath of the law. “The government should immediately commence the prosecution of all suspects involved in these brutal and arbitrary killings in order to send a strong signal that such acts will no longer be tolerated in Nigeria.” Akpata said there are rumours suggesting that the suspects apprehended for Deborah’s murder are on trial for trivial offences. “We are, however, worried by yet-to-be-confirmed reports reaching us that the suspects have been charged with mere breach of public peace in an episode that cut short Deborah’s life in her prime,” the NBA president said. “The NBA is strongly opposed to a banalisation of the situation, and if these reports are true, then we call on the Sokoto state government to immediately rethink its prosecution strategy and file charges that truly reflect the gravity of the situation. “While the expectation of Nigerians and the international community is that the culprits should be brought to justice speedily for the appropriate offences, the demand for the release of the suspects by some protesting youths coupled with assault on innocent citizens, burning of worship centres and destruction of property has added an entirely new and worrisome dimension to the unfortunate incident. This is clearly a test of the will of the state to fully enforce its laws and foster rule of law.”