Tukur Buratai, former chief of army staff, says Rotimi Amaechi, presidential hopeful, is a “versatile leader”. Buratai, who is Nigeria’s ambassador to Benin Republic, said this on Wednesday night when Amaechi met with All Progressives Congress (APC) delegates in Bauchi state. The former army chief said he is supporting the former Rivers governor’s presidential bid because he is a “sound administrator” and “versatile leader”. “You can see from the introduction, the experience of our Presidential aspirant. The profile of Rt Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi is quite intimidating,” Amaechi’s media office quoted him as saying. “He has proven to be a sound administrator, a versatile leader, a good strategist and a politician par excellence, who has shown good qualities in all areas he has worked. “As speaker, as governor, as minister and also first among equals during his tenure as chairman of Nigeria Governors’ Forum, as well as the dexterity and the quality of the campaign (for President Buhari) that he led on two occasions. That is why I am giving him my full support. “He did that diligently with all his determination, loyalty and of course with love for Nigeria and love for humanity irrespective of what religion you belong to. This is quite commendable, that’s why he is here today to solicit for your votes. From what you have heard about him, I believe you know that he’s the man of the moment. He is the right choice. “So, I urge you to make the right choice and vote for him.” On his part, Amaechi said if he picks the party’s ticket and get elected as president, he would complete a rail project that cuts across Bauchi. “This is the moment of decision. For 20 years I have held public office, as speaker, as governor and as minister. And in all of these, you will see my footprint,” the hopeful said. “There’s a railway construction going on from Port Harcourt to Maiduguri. It includes Bauchi and it’s called the Port Harcourt-Maiduguri railway. If you vote for me, that project will be completed and it will create employment. So vote for me, make me the candidate of the party. I doubt that the other aspirants have the capacity to defeat me. If you vote for me I will defeat the PDP.”