Simon Lalong, governor of Plateau, says the All Progressives Congress (APC) delegates in the state will vote for Rotimi Amaechi, presidential hopeful, in the party’s primary election. Speaking at a meeting with Amaechi and APC delegates at the government house in Jos on Friday, Lalong said the presidential hopeful has done a lot for the people of the state. “You are the first presidential aspirant to come and see us. When I invited others to come, they said they can’t come to Plateau because it would be a waste of time because Plateau people will not vote for them, but will vote for Amaechi,” the governor said. “So, you didn’t need to talk much. We want to rely on somebody that has done it before. We are telling you so that you would not waste your time to come back for campaigns. We have made our decision. You have done a lot for our people. “You assisted each of the northern states to do registration for the APC and we updated our registration. When we came back to Plateau to contest the general election, nobody supported us, but you did. “I was the governor and I was a candidate but you said no, as a friend, I like Plateau people and I must do my best. You invested in Plateau people and out of nowhere, we won the election. Not only myself, we have many members in the house of assembly, we have members in the national assembly. Something that nobody gave to us, you gave to us.” Lalong said he learnt from Amaechi “the art of good governance and project delivery”. “The legacy project I was doing in Plateau, I studied from you. Sir, thank you for coming. In Plateau state, we have given you the spirit, we have given you the energy and we are very proud to say it anywhere,” he said. On his part, Ibrahim Baba, majority leader in the Plateau house of assembly, said Amaechi has the capacity to govern the country. “Your efforts have actually demonstrated to the world that you can do what you can do,” Baba said. “I have the privilege to move this historic motion and say categorically, that members of the Plateau state house of assembly, chairmen of the 17 LGAs and national delegates all represented today have endorsed you.” Earlier, Amaechi said he would bring his experience in ensuring massive job creation, improving the health sector as well as equipping the security agencies to protect lives and property.