Kayode Fayemi, presidential hopeful, says if elected president, he will revive the textile industry in Kano state. Speaking on Friday when he was hosted by Nasiru Gawuna, Kano deputy governor, Fayemi said the textile industry in Kano and Kaduna states would be a major contributor to the country’s gross domestic product (GDP). The Ekiti governor also said he would fix Nigeria’s epileptic power supply by breaking down the national grid into “zonal and micro grids”. “It is in an atmosphere of peace and unity that we can grow. I’ll retool the military, expand intelligence, increase use of technology and effectively halt our nation’s march into lawlessness, insurgency and anarchy if elected,” he said. “The Kaduna/Kano textile industry that is also a major source of employment and contributor to the GDP will be revamped. “We will also tackle the problem of electricity by breaking down this national grid that’s always collapsing into zonal and micro grids in order to ensure constant power supply and push the country on the path of industrialisation.” On his part, Gawuna said Kano delegates do not have any reservations about supporting Fayemi’s presidential bid. “Your leadership qualities are not hidden. The way you have led the Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF) for two terms with unity of purpose and with no dissent, is a testament to your leadership skills,” he said. “You have led 36 governors from across different parties effectively. You have actually been president without having ministers and discharged your duties creditably well, so we have no fears about supporting you because the morning tells how the day will look like. “During the governorship rerun in 2019 when everyone left us, you stood by our government. In fact, you were the only governor who came here and fought until victory was achieved. So, we owe you on that front too.” Also speaking, Shuaib Lawal, director-general of the Fayemi campaign organisation, urged the delegates to choose the party’s presidential candidate wisely.