Dave Umahi, governor of Ebonyi state, says if former President Goodluck Jonathan joins the All Progressives Congress (APC), it would be a development worthy of the Guinness Book of World Records. A coalition of northern groups had bought the presidential nomination form of the APC for the former president on Monday, urging him to join the race. In a swift reaction, Jonathan had disowned the groups and distanced himself from the actions of the members. Speaking on Tuesday at the state house, Abuja, Umahi said the form was purchased to embarrass Jonathan. The governor was in the state house to present a ‘thank you’ letter from south-east leaders to President Muhammadu Buhari. The president was recently in Ebonyi state for a two-day working visit. Commenting on the Jonathan situation, Umahi said it would be difficult for the ruling party to campaign with the former president as its candidate. He said: “Jonathan is my father and God used him and the wife to make me a governor of the state and so, anybody who has done anything for me, I’ve always remained very grateful to such person and I will continue to be very grateful to him, the wife for being available and my destiny helper, to achieve that feat. “We don’t forget people who have helped us, but on the question of joining, I may not say much about that because I’ve seen a lot of write ups, denials, but if he decides to join and to run, it will, for me, become one of the wonders in this century. “The reason is that if you go and see the campaign programmes of APC and you now ask President Jonathan to come and run, I don’t know what will be our campaign promises and what will be the stories we’ll be telling Nigerians. “I believe strongly that he was not aware of the forms and I want to believe that people that are mischievous would have bought the forms to embarrass him. “But from what I read, he has quickly distanced himself from that. But like I said, if that is not the case, then the Guinness Book of Records is not totally filled up.”