We, the Nigerians in diaspora, see the way insecurity is ravaging Nigeria through kidnappings, terrorist attacks, ritual killings, and political thuggery. We are also aware of the disheartening state of infrastructure and education in Nigeria. Overtime a constant negative narration of increase in poverty and hardship in Nigeria is clear, but this time, is terribly devastating. Mrs Njoku We’ve never reached the crossroads like we do now. Nigeria is going through hard times. Better Nigeria USA, led by the chairperson and president, Professor Salewa Olafioye, former United Nations diplomat, are deeply sad with what is happening in our home country Nigeria. Some questions bothering our hearts with this deep sadness are: How did we get to this? What led Nigeria to this state of failure? How did we allow ethnic and religious division to rid us of peace and unity? Chairman, Better Nigeria USA We won’t join those whistling to the sadness. Our focus is on fixing the country with a leader, not a ruler. A ruler enforces the law while a leader leads by example. We have never had leaders in Nigeria, only rulers. Leadership moves with grace, while rulers move with force. We are one of the leading and largest Nigerian organizations in the Diaspora. We began with a headquarters in Detroit, Michigan. We are aiming to bridge the gap between the government and the Nigerian people in order to promote good governance. (See here) Nigeria is in another year of politics, with the PDP and APC aspirants and other political personalities all vying for the 2023 presidential seat. The race is more crowded, but we think it’s worth it. Well, as the political brouhaha blows hot in different dimensions, we would like to enjoin all the party delegates to vote chiefly in the interest of Nigerians and Nigeria alone, not themselves or their political interests. These party delegates should vote for a leader, not rulers. They should put Nigeria first by putting an end to ethnic preferences. We want a Nigeria where lives and properties are safe, a Nigeria that offers all citizens the same opportunity to grow and take part freely in the political process. A Nigeria that offers a better Nigeria to all Nigerians, including women and children. Greatness is the distinctive identity of Nigeria. Let us ensure we put that before us as a nation not behind us or trample on it. Mrs Chinwe Njoku, Women’s Leader for Better Nigeria USA.