On April 29, a Twitter user @RealOlaudah shared a post which claimed Charles Soludo, governor of Anambra, said Peter Obi, a former governor of the state, invested $20 million in SABMiller Plc, now AB InBev, on behalf of the state and the investment is now worth $100 million. The tweet, which did not state the source of the information, has amassed over 3,300 retweets, 216 comments and 7,800  likes. Other Twitter users have also circulated the post. The post, which was also widely shared on Facebook, reads: “Gov Soludo announced today that the $20 million Peter Obi invested on behalf of  Anambra State in Sabmiller Group is worth $100 million today. As a result of this, Anambra State owns the highest shares in the global company. The State was number 15 at the time of investment.” Gov Soludo announced today that the $20 million Peter Obi invested on behalf of  Anambra State in Sabmiller Group is worth $100 million today. As a result of this Anambra State owns the highest shares in the global company. The State was number 15 at the time of investment. — Olaudah Equiano® (@RealOlaudah) April 29, 2022  https://twitter.com/Iambigiyke/status/1520106691207077889?s=20&t=2jL-A9ukDVaAIrTuSRU4nA Charles Soludo has confirmed that $20M invested by Peter Obi as governor on behalf of the state in Sabmiller Group is now worth $100M.At a time when Nigeria is barely clinging onto life amidst humongous debts & an insane cost of governance,Peter Obi is who we need.#PeterObi2023 — Umar Sa'ad Hassan (@Alaye_100) April 29, 2022  REACTIONS TO THE CLAIM The tweets generated an array of reactions from social media users who either downplayed or believed the claim. Commenting on the post, Tokunbo Adesina, a financial market analyst at Quantum Economics, said, “foresight and character.” foresight and character — Olumide Adesina (@TokunboAdesina) April 29, 2022  However, another user @tobybasten shrugged off the claim, saying the state cannot be the largest shareholder in the company. They can’t be the largest, this twitter sef. Abinbev acquired sabmiller since. Maybe shareholder of Onitsha brewery — Tobi. (@tobybasten) April 29, 2022  HOW TRUE IS THE CLAIM? SABMiller Plc was a South African multinational brewing and beverage company headquartered in Woking, England on the outskirts of London until 2016 when it was acquired by Anheuser-Busch InBev. Its Nigerian businesses include Pabod Breweries Ltd (PBL) in Port Harcourt, Intafact Beverages Ltd in Onitsha. Anambra state, among others. The claim, which was attributed to Soludo, might have been extracted from an interview Peter Obi granted on August 27, 2018. “Tomorrow they are commissioning Sagamu building – the biggest brewery in Africa. Anambra state is the single-highest shareholder in that facility. I invested in it over $20 million. It is almost worth $100 today,” Obi said in the interview. In a statement, Christian Aburime, chief press secretary to Soludo, said the statement attributed to the governor is false. “The above news trending online in some social media handles, alleging that Anambra state governor, Prof Chukwuma Charles Soludo announced today; 29-04-2022, that the 20 million dollars which former governor of Anambra state, Mr Peter Obi invested on behalf of Anambra state in Sabmiller Group is now worth 100 million dollars,” he said. “The writer further claimed that from today; 29-04-2022, Anambra State now owns the highest share in the global company. This is to notify the public that the statement allegedly credited to Professor Chukwuma Charles Soludo is completely false. The governor never made or issued any statement to that effect. “It is untrue and should be completely disregarded.” To get further clarification on the matter, TheCable reached out to Aburime and he reiterated that the viral claim is false. He assured that the state would “issue a statement to tell Anambra people and Nigerians the true state of that investment.” VERDICT The claim attributed to Soludo is false.