The multinational joint task force (MNJTF) says its troops have killed 22 suspected Boko Haram members in the Lake Chad region. The MNJTF operates in the Lake Chad basin of Nigeria, Chad, Cameroon and Nigeria. According to Kamarudeen Adegoke, spokesman of MNJTF N’Djamena Chad, the insurgents were killed in a coordinated land and air offensives against the sect on Wednesday. “The troops of combined Taskforce Mallam Fatori/Damasak at Forward Operations Base Arege drawn from MNJTF Sectors 3 and 4 (Nigerian and Nigeriene troops) have continued with aggressive patrols from 27 April 2022 to dominate and put pressure on the criminals,” Adegoke said. “With multiple sorties against the terrorists’ positions, Air Taskforce gave effective close air support and attacked the criminals to enable ground forces to access thitherto well-defended terrorists’ strongholds in the vicinity of Tumbun Rago. “Despite strong resistance by the Boko Haram insurgents (BHTs), the ground troops charged through several obstacles and cleared the mined routes which made them come in contact with elements of the BHTs “After the operational engagement which was firmly supported by the ATFs of OPHK and the MNJTF, a battle damage assessment clearly revealed at least 20 BHT were neutralised, twelve (12) AK 47 rifles, 1X Mortar 60mm and large catches of ammunition of different calibres were recovered. “Likewise, carefully concealed 5x Gun Trucks and a truck laden with supplies meant for the criminals were destroyed. Also, an MRAP fighting vehicle was recovered by the troops, it was carted from NA position in the past.” Adegoke added that troops of sector 1 taskforce Wulgo (MNJTF troops from Cameroun) killed two Boko Haram logisticians in the Chikingudu area of Borno. “Two motorcycles were recovered from them. Meanwhile, the Amphibious Taskforce Darak of the same Sector 1 has continued their maritime patrols to dominate their areas. “The TF continued to the Kirta Wulgo and Tcholl settlements suspected to have Boko Haram insurgents hibernating there but they fled before the arrival of their troops. Makeshift shelters seen there were destroyed by the gallant troops.”