Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo says his experience in governance is required for continuity in governance for Nigeria’s development. The presidential hopeful said this on Sunday during his meeting with stakeholders as well as delegates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kaduna and Kebbi states. According to a statement by Laolu Akande, his spokesman, the vice-president said his experience working in the present administration will provide the right foundation if he is elected president. “I’ve served as vice president for the past seven years under the able leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari. During that seven-year period, I have had the unique opportunity to work with an open and transparent president,” he was quoted as saying during a visit to the palace of Muhammadu Bashar, the Emir of Gwandu in Kebbi. “My experience is crucial, especially in governing a country of our size. This is why I decided to put myself forward to serve as president. “There are other people vying for that position (of the president); several competent Nigerians and competent members of our party, the APC. We all know that all power belongs to the Almighty God. He is the one who determines who rules; we can only hope and pray and put ourselves forward. “I believe strongly that the stage that our country is at, is one that requires continuity of the sort that will enable us achieve great results.” At his meeting with delegates in Kebbi, Osinbajo said he will ensure that there is an enabling environment for all citizens. “It is God who gives power. Only God can put a man or woman in position, and if God puts you in a position, nobody can change it,” he said. “I offered myself as presidential aspirant of our party, because I know that by the grace of God, if God helps me to be elected, we will change our country for the common man, for the politician, for the rich, poor, young, women, children, and the old. Let us work together, your votes will determine the future of our country. “This is a complex country, but it is a country that must remain united, that must remain secure, and we must improve the economy for the benefit of millions of young people and all Nigerians.” Meanwhile, during the visit to Kaduna, Nasir el-Rufai, governor of the state, was quoted as describing Osinbajo as Buhari’s “confidante”, who has performed well as head of the National Economic Council (NEC). “I have worked very closely with the Vice President in the last seven years. Before then, we worked as senior officials of the party to craft the party’s strategy, as well as manifesto. We jointly wrote the manifesto of the party together as members of the strategy committee of the party,” el-Rufai reportedly said. “He is a man of intellect, brilliance; a unifier, a detribalised Nigerian, who has shown us leadership as chairman of the National Economic Council. “It was under Vice President Osinbajo’s leadership that our Paris Cub refund, that was deducted in 2005, was finally paid to all the states, and we are all beneficiaries. “It was under his leadership that recommendations were made to bail out 27 states, that, in 2015 were unable to pay salaries. I can go on and on to list the qualifications and virtues of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo.” According to Akande, el-Rufai also asked Kaduna APC delegates to vote wisely during the presidential primary. “In Kaduna State we are people of honour. So, please remember that the future of Nigeria is at stake. Nigeria is at a critical crossroads and the choices we make in 2023 will, to large extent, determine whether this country progresses rapidly to achieve its manifest destiny or not,” he was quoted as saying “We must put all our sentiments and personal interests aside, and vote for the best person that will take Nigeria to that promise land.”