The Transition Monitoring Group (TMG), an election observation coalition, has cautioned public officers against using government resources to fund their political ambitions. Several government officials, including five ministers, have expressed intention to run for president in 2023 but have yet to quit their position. In a statement on Saturday, Auwal Rafsanjani, TMG chairman, said it is “unacceptable” for public officials to use state apparatus to advance their political ambition. Rafsanjani said political appointees seeking elective offices should resign, adding that it is a prerequisite stipulated in the 2022 Electoral Act. “We are living witnesses to how ministers and other top public office holders use state apparatus such as government jets, public cars as well as funds to run their personal ambitions which wrongfully does not create a level playing ground and is a bad omen for our democracy,” the statement reads. “A lot of public government officials make a public declaration of their intentions to contest elections and are still holding on to their positions which is against section 84 (12) of the Electoral Act 2022 as amended. “To this end, in compliance with the provision, all political appointees, and other public servants serving in government aspiring for political offices should submit their resignation letters and run their campaigns legally as this will not be condoned by Nigerians.” According to Rafsanjani, it is “shocking and alarming” for public officials to use state instruments to run their policies bid despite the economic difficulties in the country. Rafsanjani said the group will “vigorously” monitor the conduct of primary elections by political parties to ensure they comply with the provisions of the electoral act. While criticising the high cost of expression of interest and nomination forms, Rafsanjani asked the electoral umpire and security services to keep an eye on political parties’ activities to ensure that hopefuls do not bribe delegates and swag votes in their favour.