Mary Ikoku, chief executive officer (CEO) of Access Development Initiative, has obtained the All Progressives Congress (APC) expression of interest and nomination forms to run for a seat in the house of representatives. Ikoku is vying to represent Arochukwu/Ohafia federal constituency of Abia state. Speaking after she picked the forms, Ikoku said her mission is to tackle youth unemployment in the constituency. “My people have endured over 20 years of misrule and have remained without any visible developmental experience, yet there have been those who have led the state in the past and present, yet youths have remained without jobs, women are left to struggle while men have to go through rough paths to cater for their families,” she said. “I have come to show the way and put more smiles on the faces of our people more than I have done through my philanthropic programmes. “Over the years, I have sat like many, on the side-lines of politics, ‘just doing the little I can’ but I have come to realise by my various interactions and work within my community and in development institutions, that there is room to do and achieve much more that will positively impact on the people and our communities. “It is my belief that to be solely satisfied with personal comfort in the midst of the retrogression of our society amidst growing poverty is not only being selfish but grossly underutilising the talents and abilities that God has given us to serve and contribute meaningfully to the development of our community and nation. This personal philosophy has greatly influenced and channelled my thoughts and actions. “My vision and commitment in this endeavour is for the people. Beyond politics, it is my passion to feel and understand the pulse of the people – our thoughts, expectations and understanding of the course set before us and the way forward. “We have endured governance that has for too long been less than capable of delivering its promises or meeting the desires of the people for basic development. We have groped in the dark for far too long.“ Ikoku added that she will give the people the representation they deserve.