Buba Galadima, a former member of the board of trustees (BoT) of the All Progressives Congress (APC), says Rabiu Kwankwaso is the unopposed presidential hopeful of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP). Galadima said the former Kano governor is the only person who purchased the presidential nomination form of the NNPP. Speaking on Politics Today, a Channels Television programme, the one-time ally of President Muhammadu Buhari said the growing prominence of NNPP is making other political parties jittery. “There are only two political parties in Nigeria today: NNPP and the rest. It is the winning party,” he said. “It is 22 years old but reinvented two months ago. We’ve seen [shivers] across the spines of all those that you fear because they know that our candidate will be the next president of Nigeria, God willing.” When asked to name the candidate, he said: “We have our forms, we have closed the sale of forms. Only one person bought the form to become president, so he is unopposed. “[He is] the only candidate in Nigeria who is sure that is going to be on the ballot come March 2023. “Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso is the only politician in Nigeria that has got the CV that nobody has among all the flock that are running across the country. “He was deputy speaker of the house of representatives, he was a senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, he was defence minister, he was ambassador plenipotentiary. He was governor of Kano for eight years. “No Nigerian today has got that qualification and he has got a pedigree of performance.” THREE PRESIDENTIAL HOPEFULS? The assertion of Galadima runs contrary to an earlier comment by Boniface Aniebonam, NNPP pioneer national chairman and founder. In an interview with NAN, also on Sunday, Aniebonam had said three aspirants have indicated their intention to vie for the presidential ticket of the party. “NNPP is open for any Nigerian man that has divine calling to lead Nigeria at this critical [period]. Once it is within the time frame, the door is open,” he had said. “At least three persons have shown intention to contest the presidency on the platform of NNPP. I have seen their posters. One is from the north, one from the south-east and another from the south-west. We expect more.” Aniebonam also noted that the party is open to credible aspirants whose dream is to create a new Nigeria.