Tobiloba Adedeji, a journalist with The Nation newspaper, has been reportedly shot by officers of the Osun police command. Adedeji was said to have been covering the protest when he was shot on the thigh, around the Olaiye-Iya area of Osogbo, the state capital. TheCable understands that the incident occurred when youths were protesting the alleged recent killing of one Abiola Afolabi, by police officers. While protesting the incident, some police officers were said to have arrived the scene of the protest and started shooting. Speaking on the incident, Yemisi Opalola, spokesperson of the Osun police command, told TheCable that live bullets were not used by the officers. “I and the CP have visited the journalist earlier today. We are currently investigating the matter surrounding the shot. We only responded to a distress call from the citizens. The information I gathered from the men on duty was that they didn’t go on the operation with live bullets,” she said. “It was alleged that the police shot at that journalist, but we are still making enquiries.” Meanwhile, Gboyega Oyetola, governor of Osun, has condemned the shooting of the journalist. “Shooting at journalists and unarmed citizens is completely unacceptable, irresponsible and condemnable. The police officers have no justification for this unfortunate and unlawful act. They could have employed other means rather than resorting to deadly force to disperse the group,” he said in a statement by Ismail Omipidan, his chief press secretary. “The frequency of these unfortunate and avoidable provocative incidents is a source of concern to us, as a government. I have, therefore, directed the State Commissioner of Police to investigate the Tuesday shooting incident and ensure that his officers who are involved in it are identified and punished in accordance with extant regulations and law.” Also, while reacting to the incident, the Osun council of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) demanded the immediate redeployment of Olawale Olokode, the Osun police commissioner, over the shooting.