The Nigerian Army says two soldiers on their way to “fulfil the traditional rites for their wedding” have been killed in Imo state. Onyema Nwachukwu, army spokesman, confirmed the development in a statement on Tuesday. According to him, the soldiers — identified as Audu Linus, a retired master warrant officer, and Gloria Matthew, a private — were killed over the weekend. The army expressed its condolences to the family members of the deceased, adding that efforts are on to ensure that the attackers face justice. “Apparently, the soldiers had embarked on the trip to fulfill the traditional rites of conjugating their matrimony, as the very well respected and cherished Igbo tradition demands,” the statement reads. “Ironically, the fact that one of the soldiers, Pte Gloria Matthew, who hails from Nkwerre LGA of Imo state, has an ethnic affiliation with the good people of South East Nigeria did not prevail on the sensibility of the dissidents. “This dastardly act, one too many, clearly portends the deep-seated hate, desperation and lawlessness with which foot soldiers of IPOB/ESN have been unleashing terror on Ndigbo, whom they claim they are on a mission to protect and emancipate, as well as other innocent Nigerians who are resident or transiting the South East. “This gruesome murder, in which they did not spare even their own child, clearly depicts callousness, impenitence and is indisputably, a brazen act of terrorism perpetrated by IPOB/ESN. “Though the dissident groups have continued to live in denial, while masquerading as unknown gunmen in their criminal violent campaign in the region, the NA will ensure the perpetrators of this dastardly act unleashed on its personnel do not go unpunished. “While we deeply condole with the families, relations and close associates of the victims, the NA has commenced investigation to unmask and bring the criminals to book. “Members of the public are please enjoined to oblige security agencies actionable information that will lead to the arrest of these criminals.” States across the south-east have been attacked by gunmen in recent weeks, but the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has repeatedly denied the involvement of its members in the violence recorded in the region.