Valentine Ozigbo, candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2021 Anambra governorship election, says the party has cleared him to contest the Anambra south senatorial seat. A reported earlier submitted by the PDP’s five-member screening committee chaired by Victor Okorie had disqualified Ozigbo for submitting the expression of interest and nomination forms after the deadline set by the party. But Ozigbo, in a statement on Thursday, said he has now received his clearance certificate to contest for the ticket of Anambra south senatorial district. “I am pleased and honoured to formally inform you that I have received my clearance certificate to contest for the ticket for the Anambra South Senatorial seat in the Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) primary coming up later this month,” the statement reads. “Firstly, I want to thank all the people who reached out to me, expressed concern, and took action in the past week over the status of my screening for the Senatorial Primary of our great party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).” While denying that he was disqualified, Ozigbo said Umar Bature, PDP’s national organising secretary, had assured him that due process would be followed on the screening. “The dust is now settled, and we are moving forward full-throttle. In 2020 when I resigned from my role as the President and Group CEO of Transcorp Plc in 2020 to dedicate the next chapter to public service, I promised God that I would always make the people I serve my priority,” he said. “No matter what has been thrown my way, I have never lost focus that I am on a quest to serve my people. “As such, I listen to my people. I make decisions that I believe put their best interest at heart. That is why I am running for the senatorial seat for Anambra South. The overwhelming yearnings of my people are that I should represent them at the Red Chamber of the National Assembly. “I have an unshakeable belief that Ndi Anambra deserve the best. We deserve the best in governance, we deserve the best in leadership, and we deserve the best in representation at all levels. This is why I am running for Senate. I believe that I have what it takes to provide high-quality representation and leadership for my people at the National Assembly. “The days of sending the mediocre to the national stage to represent us are over. This is a new day. We move forward.”