Rotimi Amaechi, former governor of Rivers and presidential hopeful on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), says he expect complete support from party delegates in Adamawa. Amaechi said this on Tuesday, during a meeting with APC delegates in Yola, the Adamawa capital. The former minister of transportation, who first met with Muhammadu Mustapha, the Lamido of Adamawa, said his past record gives him the necessary experience to lead Nigeria as president. “If there’s a place I’m expecting 100 percent of votes, Adamawa is one of those states. We cannot win without your votes,” he said. “The problems of Nigeria are numerous, but the greatest problem is the followership. If you choose the right leader, things won’t go bad. Judge me by my past records; do research. “There’s a history book of Nigeria written by Richard Bourne. Go and check. My name is there, enumerating the things I did. “If I was not a good leader, my colleagues wouldn’t have voted me a second time to be chairman of the conference of speakers. Don’t forget, I was chairman of the governors’ forum, and when I was running for a second term, I was opposed by then President Goodluck Jonathan, and my colleagues stood by me and I won. “There must be something in me that made my colleagues push me forward.” In his remarks, Bindow Jibrilla, former Adamawa governor, described Amaechi as a person who understands the plight of Nigerians and respects every region of the country. “The delegates are members of the APC family, and as a former governor of this state, I am proud to bring someone that knows you, someone who has feelings for you, someone who respects you, someone who loves you. That person is Amaechi,” Jibrilla said. “I was praying as a governor then, to know and meet and work with this gentleman called Amaechi, simply because his antecedents, his reputation precede him. He respects and supports the people of the entire northern Nigeria.” In his remarks, the Lamido of Adamawa said he would continue to pray for Amaechi and for his bid to become president.