Atiku Abubakar, presidential hopeful on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has deleted social media posts condemning the killing of a female student of the Shehu Shagari College of Education. The student, identified as Deborah Samuel, was said to have been attacked by a mob over comments considered to be an insult to Prophet Mohammed. In a post on Friday, the former vice-president said he did not authorise the initial post, adding that any post that does not have his initials “A.A” is not from him. “This evening I received information that a post was made that doesn’t agree with my orders. I use this to announce that any post without AA is not from me. May God protect – AA,” the presidential hopeful said. Muhammadu Abubakar, the Sultan of Sokoto, condemned the killing and asked security operatives to ensure that the perpetrators are apprehended. The police said they have arrested two suspects connected to the killing. “Upon receiving the information, the DC Operations led a team of policemen and all other operational commanders in the state to the school where the road was cleared and the situation was brought under control,” a statement by the police read. “Two students were arrested in connection with the crime committed. “The school has been closed down by the school authority, and policemen were deployed to give tight security coverage.” Atiku’s action has sparked outrage on social media. Here are some reactions to the development; Such a good tweet from Atiku Abubakar condemning the brutal murder of Deborah Yakubu. It’s really embarrassing it was deleted, especially after his silence about the Pantami saga. — Dr Dípò Awójídé (@OgbeniDipo) May 13, 2022  Atiku deleting the tweet condemning the gruesome murder of Deborah shows what we have been preaching this whole election season. Politicians don’t care for the people. They only play to the gallery when seeking for our votes. The people must see beyond these gimmicks… — MrMacaroni (@mrmacaronii) May 13, 2022  Incumbent President GEJ said his ambition is not worth the blood of any Nigerian and submitted to the will of the people without bloodshed. Aspirant Atiku deleted his own tweet condemning religious mob who killed an innocent lady because they threatened him with votes in Sokoto. — Man of Letters. (@Letter_to_Jack) May 13, 2022  Atiku deleting that tweet confirms one thing, if he becomes president “nepotism” will be the order of his government. He obviously fears the north, he’ll answer to them only. — King Ope Of ABJ  (@KingOpeOfAbj) May 13, 2022  You only wield power on politicians if you can make them lose their seats. Atiku as a case study. — Rinu Oduala  (@SavvyRinu) May 13, 2022  Hang on a minute, is it not the same man that "saint Obi" called his leader and boss? The same man a certain region eulogised. The same man that told gullible Southerners that he will restructure the country if he ever emerged as the president. SMH May Deborah soul rest in peace — Tunde Odus (@tunde_odus) May 13, 2022  Election/Power is what they've really cared about not necessarily the interest of the masses, that's why it remains the only well-planned event by the government. pic.twitter.com/Uzv7mqqFlw — Emem   (@EmemXavierAtat) May 13, 2022  Atiku’s behavior surprised me but not disappointed. There is not single different Northern politician. It’s same orientation. What makes some of their business men different is lagos’ influence. — Adebayo Samuel Ogunkoya (ASO) (@Officiall_aso) May 13, 2022  He felt threathen by northern youth extremists This is a man that wants to govern Nigeria ???? Atiku, Tambuwal — TheCitizen (@ally_citizen) May 13, 2022  So sad — Babajide (@MrBabajide) May 13, 2022  The deletion of the tweet is louder than the tweet in itself. — Geebee (@MrGbolzy) May 13, 2022  Deleted for Political Correctness. We chose politics over the truth  Ridiculous and hypocritical. It’s either you’re here or there — Tbabtz Designs  (@bello_Tbabtz) May 13, 2022 