BY DADA YUSUFF For a long time, we have been made to believe that our power as a people is in our ability to elect our leaders. We have been told that our vote is our power to decide who becomes what and when. For a long time, we have associated the problem of our democracy and, by extension, our country with the lack of credible leaders to manage the affairs of our country. We have long wondered why we are always presented with bad choices to elect to our esteemed public offices. At this defining moment, more than ever before, we have identified perhaps the greatest challenge to our democracy and national prosperity – the poor choices of party delegates. The problem with Nigeria is not the absence of intelligent minds to run our dear country. The perennial problem is the poor choices made by party delegates at successive primary elections. For many, it is a unique opportunity to gain some financial reward for their political toil over the years. Some delegates reserve their votes strictly for the highest bidder, even if such is a brainless moneybag. The Nigerian electorates become helpless by choices made by delegates at every election. Some delegates do not understand the salience of their roles at the primaries. The problem has never been the lack of eligible or willing electorates but who to vote for. This partly explains the problem of voter apathy in Nigeria. The much-anticipated 2023 election year is around the corner; with party primaries already scheduled; the moment is here! As seen in previous elections, politicians are confident in their trade of buying delegates. Plans are in top gear to “Dollarise” the primaries. For the moneybags, it’s a done deal. Unfortunately, the hope of competent candidates lies in the hopeful, intelligent choices of the delegates. Across the political spectrum, many have shown interest in becoming, and they have the right to. But Nigerians and the delegates know who the best candidates are…the hope is that money will not win. As a delegate, you might even get more dollars than you anticipated, but what becomes of the country when incompetence ride on your thumb into public offices. What will become of our critical sectors, such as security, economy, health, education, etc., misfits get into high offices? Will the dollars be enough to save your family and loved ones when your Commander-in-Chief cannot command anything? Why wait to regret your choices when you have a rare opportunity to change the fortune of this country for good. Nigeria is at a critical juncture, and we cannot afford to gamble with it. A lot is at stake, the economy needs urgent rescue from total collapse, the security architecture of this country has become grossly ineffective, the educational sector is in chaos, and the health sector is in shambles. Esteemed Delegate, you have a huge responsibility on your shoulders, first to put the country’s interest above yours; to ensure that only competent, trustworthy, and hard-working men and women are on the ballot. This is undoubtedly a lot to ask in a highly capitalized democracy, but can you at least give Nigerians the benefit of quality candidates for once in a long time. The next four years and indeed the future of Nigeria is in your hands; you can either cash out or be different. We hope you would be different. Dada Yusuff, a Kaduna-based journalist, can be reached via talktoyusuffdada@gmail.com