The Katsina police command says its operatives have repelled attacks by bandits on communities in the state. Gambo Isah, police spokesperson in the state, said this on Wednesday at a media briefing in Katsina. He said the police learnt of an attack on a village in Dutsinma LGA, where bandits were said to have rustled domestic animals before they were intercepted by the police unit. “On May 17, 2022, a distress call was received that terrorists in their numbers attacked Dantakiri village, Dutsinma LGA, and rustled an unspecified number of domestic animals,” Isah said. “Area Commander, Dutsinma led teams of policemen and vigilante and blocked the terrorists at Mararabar-Sayaya, Matazu LGA. “The teams engaged the hoodlums into a fierce gun duel, neutralised six terrorists and recovered 86 cows and 101 sheep and goats. “In the course of scanning the scene, one AK-47 rifle was also recovered. It is reasonably suspected that some of the terrorists have escaped from the scene with gunshot wounds. “Search parties are still combing the nearby bushes with a view to arresting the injured terrorists and/or recover their dead bodies and their operational weapons.” He also said on the same day, the police received a distress call that gunmen attacked the farm of Lawal Mani, a retired assitant inspector-general of police, at Dabaibayawa village and stole animals. “The officer-in-charge of the anti-kidnapping unit, DPOs of Batagarawa and Batsari were alerted to pursue and block the hoodlums as they were moving towards Rugu forest with the rustled animals,” he said. “Consequently, the team succeeded and intercepted them at Kandawa village, Batsari LGA. “The team engaged the terrorists in a fierce gun duel and succeeded not only in repelling them but also in recovering all the rustled domestic animals, comprising 24 cows and 141 goats and sheep. Investigation is ongoing.” Isah added that the command “busted syndicates and recovered some stolen vehicles” during another operation in the state. He also said the command arrested a suspect who confessed to have taken part in various attacks on villages in Safana LGA of the state.