Nigerian airlines, under the aegis of Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON),  say there will be disruption of scheduled flight operations over the growing scarcity of aviation fuel popular as Jet-Al. Obiora Okonkwo, chairman, United Nigeria airline and spokesperson of AON, said this in a public notice issued on Monday. The statement said that the scarcity of aviation is impacting negatively on the seamless conduct of air transport operations and “would lead to flight rescheduling, and, or, cancellations”. “The Airline Operators of Nigeria wish to alert the public of impending disruptions to scheduled flight operations of members of the association. This development is being forced on members by the growing scarcity of aviation fuel popular as Jet-Al,” the statement reads. “The scarcity is impacting negatively on the seamless conduct of air transport operations and would lead to flight rescheduling, and, or, cancellations. “However, the association and its members are working very hard, and in alliance with product marketers, government and relevant stakeholders, to ensure availability and proper pricing of aviation fuel in the country. “While pleading the understanding of the flying public in the face of this reality, we also promise to do all that is necessary, and within our powers, to restore normal flight schedules as soon as possible.” Two weeks ago, some airlines had complained about the rising cost of aviation fuel and threatened to shut down operations. The proposed strike was aborted after Femi Gbajabiamila, speaker of the house, convened a meeting of all stakeholders in the industry, including marketers and the Central Bank of Nigeria. After the meeting, Gbajabiamila said the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) agreed to provide the aviation fuel at N480/litre pending when the carriers would be granted a license to import the commodity. Allen Onyema, vice-president of AON, had said the rising cost and fuel scarcity can be addressed if airliners are allowed to purchase aviation fuel directly.