The Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) says it has completed the repairs of the Abuja-Kaduna rail track that were destroyed by bandits in March. The corporation made this known on Thursday in a statement signed by Niyi Ali on behalf of Fidet Okhiria, its managing director. The NRC said the Abuja-Kaduna train service would resume soon with additional security measures put in place. It said when the trains resume, passengers will be required to provide their national identification number (NIN) registration for verification prior to purchasing train tickets. According to the corporation, this is for improved passenger profiling and safety on board. “In our concerted efforts at restoring the AKTS tracks corridor for resumption of service soonest, please note the latest updates: the connection of the AKTS line has been achieved,” the statement reads. “This implies that the major track components (concrete sleepers and rails) have been completely laid. The south end of the tracks (which was destroyed by the explosion) has been successfully joined with the north end. “Track access between Abuja and Kaduna is now restored. The technical team continue with other track stabilisation works including ballasting, temping, fastening of accessories (clips, bolts and nuts) and welding.” The corporation said that Loco 2502 which was involved in the accident (though not damaged) and trapped at the Rigasa end due to lack of route access had now crossed to the Idu end and taken to the workshop for proper examination and routine maintenance. It added that it would continue to collaborate with security agencies to ensure all persons being held are rescued unhurt and reunited with their families. The Abuja-Kaduna rail track was blown up by gunmen when they attacked a Kaduna-bound train on March 28. Explosives were said to have been planted on the rail track. The attack occurred around Kateri-Rijana area of Kaduna — close to the train’s final stop. Several passengers aboard the train were killed by the gunmen while many sustained varying degrees of injuries, and some were abducted.