Femi Gbajabiamila, speaker of the house of representatives, says Africa is far from achieving its full potential. Gbajabiamila spoke on Monday at the Conference of Speakers and Heads of African Parliaments (COSAP) held in Abuja. He said military juntas have usurped elected governments in Sudan, Mali, Guinea, and Chad, putting the continent’s democracy in jeopardy. “We live in a time fraught with potential and danger, and every governing decision we make and every action we take has the potential to substantially remake our world for good or ill,” he said. “This is, in effect, one of those defining historical moments. And when, as is inevitable, history delivers its judgment, we will either be remembered for doing the hard and necessary things that make for progress and prosperity or be reviled for squandering the opportunity of a generation. “I believe that all of us are here because we recognise the historical significance of this moment and have determined to be on the right side of history’s judgment. “Africa has come of age. Yet there is no gainsaying that we are far from achieving the highest potential that we are able. Across the continent, democracy is under threat and in retreat.  From Sudan to Mali, Guinea and Chad, elected governments have been usurped by military juntas, overturning years of progress and the hopes of millions. “Even in the places where elected governments are still in charge, public faith in the governing institutions is at an all-time low. When citizens lose confidence that a democratic government can meet their expectations, democracy loses credibility and support and begins a death spiral. This is the reality in too many places across our continent.” ‘OUR TOMORROW A CONSEQUENCE OF TODAY’S CHOICES’ Addressing the continent’s COVID-19 response, Gbajabiamila said African leaders handled the pandemic better than the world’s predictions of disaster. “The world has just now begun to recover from the tragedy of the COVID-19 pandemic. For us in Africa, the pandemic exposed the dire conditions of our social infrastructure,” he said. “It brought into stark relief the massive effort required to ensure that we are better prepared for next time. And there will be the next time. As technology has hastened the flow of information and resources and facilitated travel and trade, it has also made it possible for previously unknown diseases, from the farthest reaches of the globe, to spread with speed and disastrous consequences, as we have just witnessed. “I am glad that despite predictions of disaster, Africa, for the most part, has managed this disease with evenness, and the actions of many governments across the continent worked to keep the worst outcomes from manifesting on our shores. But there is a lot of work to do. Much of that work will fall to parliaments across the continent. “As advocates and representatives of the people, it is our responsibility to set the terms of our national development and ensure that government priorities reflect our citizens’ most pressing needs and highest aspirations. “Many reasons have been adduced to explain how we arrived at these dire circumstances. This conference will examine some of those reasons to understand what we need to do to correct the trajectory of our countries and continent. However, Ladies and gentlemen, honourable colleagues, I want to tell you today that Africa’s destiny is not set in stone. “Our tomorrow is a consequence of today’s choices, the commitments we make and the priorities we choose to pursue. “Despite the real challenges and present dangers, this is also a time of abundant promise and possibility for us in Africa. Technology has remade our world into a global village where a child with a computer and internet connection in Lagos or Addis Ababa can compete in and succeed in a global marketplace that prioritises ideas and talent over religion, ethnicity and tribe.” Gbajabiamila said leaders on the continent must invest in young people, noting that there is “no decision more consequentia”.