Tokunbo Abiru, senator representing Lagos east district, has won the All Progressives Congress (APC) ticket to contest for a second term. Abiru, chairman of the senate committee on industries, contested unopposed and cleared all the 344 votes cast by delegates — with no invalid vote. The primary election was held on Saturday at CMD, Magodo, Lagos. Fouad Oki, the returning officer, said the nomination process complied with the provisions of the electoral act. In his acceptance speech, Abiru said he would not relent in his #DoingGood agenda for the people. While acknowledging the support of party leaders and members, the senator said he was honoured to be an unopposed candidate. “I want to let you know that I will continue to be passionate about ensuring ‘greater good for greater and larger number’,” Abiru said. “This mantra will continue to guide my philosophy and strategy in giving a lease of life to our people as much as is within my power. “I am extremely honoured and delighted to be standing before you today to accept the nomination of our great party as the unopposed candidate for the general elections as the candidate for the party to represent Lagos-east senatorial district at the national assembly. ‘’I am eternally grateful for this nomination and wholeheartedly accept it as it perhaps also in many ways a recognition of the efforts and work we have put into representing you in the last 16 months. ‘’Let me start by once again thanking all our leaders and members across Epe, Ibeju-Lekki, Ikorodu, Kosofe and Somolu for their invaluable contributions to how effective we have represented our people and for this honour of being returned unopposed as the candidate of the party for the district at next year’s general elections. ‘’Haven received this affirmation from the party and our people, I would like to assure you that I will remain guided by the priorities and commitment to this cause which I have constantly asserted in the course of the exercise of this sacred mandate.” Wuraola Animashaun, chairman of Epe LGA, congratulated Abiru, adding that the electoral process was free and fair. “The election is a good one since there is no opposition which is due to the love they have for the sitting senator which is immeasurable,” she said. “Even if he is going for four terms, people will not contest against him because he is doing well and representing their interest at the national assembly.” Dele Oshinowo, chairman of Agboyi-Ketu LCDA, described the process as peaceful, adding that the incumbent had helped the constituency. “Sen. Abiru has been in touch with the party leaders, he is accountable to members and doesn’t take decisions alone without consultation,” he said. “I want to advise the senator to continue with the good works which make people not to be interested in contesting against him.”