Hadi Sirika, minister of aviation, has appealed to domestic airlines to suspend the planned shutdown of operations from Monday. Sirika made the appeal in a statement issued by James Odaudu, his special assistant on public affairs, on Saturday, in Lagos. On Friday, airlines under the aegis of the Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON), announced plans to shut down flight operations over the high cost of aviation fuel, also known as Jet A1. The minister urged the airlines to consider the multiplier effect that shutting down operations would have on travellers. “The attention of the Minister of Aviation, Sen. Hadi Sirika, has been drawn to reports that the nation’s air transportation system will be disrupted as from Monday,” the statement reads. “This follows the threats by airline operators to shut down operations as a result of rising cost of Jet A1, otherwise known as aviation fuel. “As the ministry charged with the industry, we are greatly concerned about the difficulties being faced by the airlines in procuring aviation fuel which has resulted in spiraling costs in air transportation in the immediate past. “We also acknowledge that the airlines are in the business to make profits, while servicing the very critical sector that is not only the preferred mode of transport for most Nigerians, but the main international gateway to the nation. “Unfortunately, the issue of fuel supply is not within the purview of the ministry, so the much it can do in the present situation is to engage with agencies, institutions and individuals in positions to provide succour to the airlines. This is already being done by the relevant team led by the minister. “While the efforts to assuage the situation are on, we wish to appeal to the airline operators, even in the difficult situation, to consider the multiplier effect of shutting down operations, on Nigerians and global travellers, in taking their business-informed decisions and actions.” The aviation minister assured Nigerians that the Buhari administration remains commitment to the creation and sustenance of an environment that promotes the growth of the aviation industry. He also said the president was committed to the development of the industry where major players such as the airlines could operate in a profitable and competitive market.