Ibrahim Shekerau, a former governor of Kano, has explained why he left the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP). Shekerau, senator representing Kano central, spoke on Wednesday in an interview with Channels Television. TheCable had reported that the former Kano governor joined NNPP after months of leadership tussle with Abdullahi Ganduje, governor of Kano. The development means that Shekerau has pitched his political tent with Rabiu Kwankwaso, another former governor of Kano, in the NNPP. Explaining reasons behind his defection, Shekerau said APC’s inability to settle the crisis between his faction and Ganduje’s faction led to his exit from the party. “That is very true. As a result of very many developments over the last couple of weeks or even months, after due consultations with the various constituencies that I represent, I left the party,” he said. “Unfortunately, instead of the party leadership then, Mai Mala Buni, to convene a meeting to resolve the issue as a family matter within a few hours of the appeal court judgment, they rushed and granted certificate of recognition to the other faction. “We ran to the supreme court, the judgment of the supreme court upheld the judgment of the appeal court that the matter is a party issue and that the party should bring the two sides together. “We had several meetings with Mai Mala Buni leadership and both sides proposed the way forward. Unfortunately that was not implemented and it even worsened the situation. “What was mostly reported on social media was not correct. The supreme court did not say they recognise the leadership and faction of Abdullahi Abass. That was not the judgment. The judgment was that the party should go and resolve the crisis. “By the time the new leadership came, they were overwhelmed by the various arrangements of primary elections. There were attempts. “I personally did quite a lot in getting the party to bring the two sides together and sit to resolve the issue. Unfortunately, the governor was always running around. It looks like he really did not want us to sit together to resolve the matter.”