Wale Oluwo, an associate of Akinwunmi Ambode, former governor of Lagos, has submitted his expression of interest and nomination forms to contest the governorship of Lagos. On Thursday, Oluwo, a former commissioner for energy and mineral resources during Ambode’s tenure, shared photographs of him submitting the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship forms at the International Conference Centre (ICC) in Abuja. In a tweet accompanying photos of him submitting the forms, Oluwo said his focus will be on ensuring an all-inclusive Lagos. True resistance begins with people confronting pain and doing something to change it! We are the resistance!#WO2023 #WALEOLUWO2023 #AMCO #APC pic.twitter.com/Kf2c9nodb0 — Wale Oluwo (@Wale_Oluwo) May 12, 2022  Oluwo had resigned as commissioner in 2018 and accused the leadership of the party of being anti-democratic in relation to the process that saw Babajide Sanwo-Olu, governor of Lagos, become the party’s candidate for the 2019 general election. Meanwhile, the former commissioner will now face off against Sanwo-Olu, who is seeking re-election on the APC platform and has secured the support of several party stakeholders. In April, the governor’s advisory council (GAC), the highest decision-making body of the APC in Lagos, endorsed Sanwo-Olu for a second term in office. Last Friday, Bola Tinubu, a presidential hopeful on the platform of the APC, also endorsed the re-election bid of Sanwo-Olu. Meanwhile, earlier in May, Oluwo had said Ambode would announce his decision on contesting in the next general election within a few days, but the former Lagos governor is yet to make any official declaration. In January, Ambode had asked Nigerian youths to register and get their permanent voter cards (PVCs) ahead of the 2023 polls. “After all we have been through, God has been faithful. Thank you for the overwhelming endorsement of our modest contributions to the growth of Lagos,” he had said. “It can only get better for Lagos, and indeed Nigeria. The youths are coming. The power is in their hands. Go and get your Permanent Voter’s Card (PVC) ready.”