MTN Media Innovation Programme (MTN MIP): Frequently Asked Questions Answer: MIP which stands for MTN Media Innovation Programme is a six-month certificate course run by the School of Media and Communication, Pan-Atlantic University, with a focus on the convergence between ICT and the media. 2. What is the objective of MIP? Answer: MIP is a fellowship for journalists (media practitioners across the entire spectrum, including social media), and it is designed to help them build capacity at both professional and business levels. The programme aims not only to expose participants to the vast opportunities in one of the fastest-growing industries in the world – technology, but also to equip them with the essential ICT skills to tap into the opportunities in some of the lucrative spheres of the industry, enabling them to do their job better. 3. How long is the programme? Answer: The programme is a six-week period, spread across six months. 4. What does the programme course entail? Answer: MIP fellows will engage in intensive sessions on courses covering creativity & innovation, entrepreneurship & management principles, subscription business, and strategic planning skills. There will also be a study trip to the University of Witwatersrand, South Africa where fellows will study the media business, Pan-Africanism as well as visit Y’ello Innovation Centre, the South African high commission amongst others. 5. Who can apply? Answer: Every media practitioner across the spectrum including social media content creators. 6. How much does this programme cost? Answer: MIP is residential and fully funded by MTN Nigeria however, the programme is available to twenty (20) successful participants. 7. What is the aim of MIP? Answer: The aim is to highlight the uniqueness of the media in Nigeria, empowering Nigeria media professionals in a way that guarantees career and financial success. 8. How to apply for MIP? Interested media practitioners can visit here to apply. 9. What are the other benefits of the Programme? Answer: At the end of the programme, there will be a graduation ceremony where the most outstanding participant will be awarded a grant to participate in and cover some of corporate social initiatives. In addition, fellows will also have access to professional resources and mentorship from SMC’s erudite faculty.