Okezie Ikpeazu, governor of Abia, has secured the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) ticket to contest for a seat in the senate. Ikpeazu will represent the PDP in the Abia south senatorial district election in 2023. He won the party’s ticket on Tuesday unchallenged. Ndidi Okereke, chairman of the election committee, said the governor got all the votes from the 198 delegates that participated in the election. Speaking after he was announced as the winner of the election, Ikpeazu said the people will benefit from his representation. “I want to thank the delegates from the six local government areas and dedicate this victory to our statutory delegates. They have been excluded from today’s exercise not because of any wrong on their part but because of some laws that have not received assent from Mr President,” he said. “I am particularly interested in women, youths and the voiceless. I pray that Almighty God will through the instrumentality of the mandate you have given me, the power, strength, opportunity and privilege to serve Abia south people to the best of my ability.” Likewise, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, governor of Enugu state, clinched the PDP ticket to contest the Enugu north senatorial district poll. Ugwuanyi garnered 299 votes to defeat three other contenders — Ikechukwu Eze, Celestine Okanya and Godsmark Ugwu. Both Ikpeazu and Ugwuanyi were elected on the platform of the PDP in 2015 and will be completing their second term in office in 2023. For Enugu east senatorial district, Chimaroke Nnamani, a former governor of the state, won the PDP ticket to re-contest. Meanwhile, Osita Ngwu won the PDP ticket for Enugu west senatorial to replace Ike Ekweremadu who has been in the national assembly since 2003. Ekweremadu, a former deputy senate president, is contesting the PDP governorship ticket in the state. Ngwu got 177 votes to defeat Ogbuefi Ozomgbachi, a member of the house of representatives; and Fidelia Njeze, former minister of aviation. They got 55 and three votes respectively.