Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo says it would be irresponsible of him not to join the presidential race, given his understanding of the challenges of the country. Osinbajo spoke on Thursday in Ado-Ekiti, the Ekiti capital, at the palace of Rufus Adejugbe, the Ewi of Ado-Ekiti. The vice-president was in Ekiti to consult with stakeholders and delegates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) ahead of the party’s presidential primary. He said working with President Muhammadu Buhari, whom he described as “a transparent and honest leader”, has made him well prepared to cope with the functions, rigours and challenges associated with the office of president. Osinbajo said he is the most experienced among the presidential aspirants, adding that his interventions as the vice-president and acting president had exposed him to the peculiarities and opportunities in the country, which he is ready to build upon. “I want to say that my aspiration to be president of the country is one that is informed by the fact that God has given me the opportunity to offer myself for this country for the past seven years,” he said. “Also, for these years, I have served as vice-president and acting president. “I have worked under a very open and transparent president, who has given me every opportunity to understand some of the issues and challenges that affect a country of size and diversity like Nigeria. “So, having had those opportunities, and when the time came for people to put themselves forward to run as president, I believe it will be irresponsible of me, after seven years,, not to join the race. “Among the aspirants, I have the requisite experience and knowledge at the federal level to do this job, and we will hit the ground running from day one, God willing. “The time has come for me to put myself for the task ahead and I must add that my sole objective is to serve this country and the people; that is the reason why I am here in Ekiti to consult with the stakeholders and, of course, the party delegates.” Responding on behalf of the traditional rulers, Adejugbe commended Osinbajo for his contributions to the development of the country. The monarch prayed for him on his aspiration, adding that “the next president should remember the traditional institutions for critical roles in nation-building, rather than advisory or visitations during elections every four years”.