Mustapha Umar Mustapha lI, Emir of Biu, Borno state, has commended Muktar Betara, member of the house of representatives, for his development efforts in his constituency. The monarch gave the commendation on Saturday when he received Betara and  members of his constituency at his palace in Biu. Betara, a lawmaker representing Biu/Kwaya Kusar/Shani/Bayo constituency in Borno, is the chairman of the house of representatives committee on appropriations. He is seeking re-election on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). In April, community members bought the APC expression of interest and nomination forms for Betara. Speaking in Hausa, the monarch said “Betara has done so much for the communities”. “In just one year Biu has witnessed massive positive transformation due to the lawmaker’s intervention.” Mustapha said if re-elected, the legislator will attract more benefits to his constituency. Also speaking, Ahmadu Jaha, a member representing Damboa/Gwoza/Chibok federal constituency, said Betara deserves to merge as the next speaker of the green chamber. “We have seen one of the wonders of the world. To the best of my knowledge, this is the first time I have ever seen this kind of crowd and this kind of honour given to somebody as an individual. I was in a state of confusion when I saw the number of contributors to honourable Betara to buy his form,” he said. “They started to generate only N10 million but at the end of the day, they generated more than N120 million. What is surprising is that there are contributors that contributed even N20. This would tell you that they have contributed everything they have just for Betara to come back to the national assembly. “For us, he has made us proud. He is our colleague. He is our friend and we are proud of him. I wish him all the best and one of the best I wish him is for him to become the speaker of the 10th national assembly because we are strongly behind him. We are going back to the national assembly to elect him as our speaker because we know he is going to continue from where our able speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, stops.” In his remarks, Betara the support from members of his constituency will motivate him to do more. “I feel happy for coming to my constituency to collect my nomination form. Every time they elect me, I have things I do for my people,” he said. “When you come to my constituency you would witness what I have been doing for them. If you know my town previously, if you knew my home town before and the way you see it now, you would know what I have done for my people.” Betara was first elected to the house of representatives in 2007.