Some civil society organisations (CSOs) have tackled Godwin Emefiele, governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), over his interest in contesting the presidency while in office. Three support groups had recently purchased the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential nomination and expression of interest forms for him. Emefiele had, however, denied being linked to the groups, saying he would purchase the form himself if he decides to contest. His interest — even though undecided at the time — had sparked criticism, with several persons calling for his resignation. The CBN governor later filed a case in the federal high court in Abuja, asking for a ruling allowing him to contest in the 2023 presidential election. But the court stayed action on the request of Emefiele to restrain the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and Abubakar Malami, attorney-general of the federation (AGF), from stopping him in the pursuit of his presidential bid. The court had also summoned INEC and the AGF to appear before it on May 12 to show cause why Emefiele’s request should not be granted. In a statement issued on Wednesday, the 10 CSOs said Emefiele’s interest in partisan politics goes contrary to the neutrality expected of the CBN on political matters. “The CBN Act (2007) was written to protect the CBN from external political interference, not expecting that the interference could be internal at the highest level,” the statement reads. “Mr Emefiele joined the All Progressives Congress (APC) in February 2021 and it is significant to note that neither his party members led by the President of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari, thought this was contrary to the spirit and the letter of his terms of engagement as CBN Governor. “It is also instructive that Mr President and the Presidency have not issued a statement on this unfolding drama. “If there is any doubt about the implied and expected neutrality of the CBN, Nigerians should be reminded that the materials for our elections are kept in CBN offices across the country and the Nigerian Security Printing and Minting Plc (an agency of the CBN) prints some of our election materials.” The 10 CSOs who signed the statement are BudgIT, Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC), Centre for Women’s Health and Information (CEWHIN), Community Life Project (CLP), Dataphyte, EiE Nigeria, Kili Ceramics, Sesor Empowerment Foundation, The Electoral Hub, and the Women Advocates Research and Documentation Centre (WARDC). The CSOs added that Emefiele’s involvement in politics hinders the independent decision-making his role requires, and advised him to resign. They, however, said in the alternative, the termination of his appointment should be initiated by the national assembly. Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari, on Wednesday, issued a directive to political appointees interested in contesting in the 2023 elections —  including the CBN governor — to resign on or before May 16.