Rochas Okorocha, former Imo governor, has sued the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) for allegedly violating his fundamental human rights. In the suit filed before an Abuja federal high court on May 27, the attorney-general of the federation is joined as the second respondent. The former governor is demanding N1 billion as exemplary damages against the respondents and a public apology in at least three national dailies. The EFCC had, on May 24, besieged the Abuja home of the senator representing Imo west. Operatives of the commission, in an attempt to disperse supporters of the former governor as well as journalists, shot sporadically in the air and also fired tear gas, after which they broke into Okorocha’s home and forcefully arrested him. The commission had said the arrest was necessitated by Okorocha’s refusal to attend his trial. In the fresh suit, Okorocha is asking the court to declare that the siege on his house is unconstitutional and a flagrant abuse of his fundamental human rights. “A declaration that the attempt on the life of the applicant by the 1st respondent through the officers working under them who shot sporadically at the applicant’s compound, broke into the applicant’s home through the rooftop all the way into his bedroom and immediately apprehended the applicant’s family members’ phones including that of the applicant on the 24th day of May, is illegal,” the document reads. He also alleged that the EFCC cut off the electricity supply into his home on the day of the invasion. Okorocha further prayed the court for an order restraining the respondents (jointly or severally) from intimidating him, threatening his life, arresting or detaining him. A date is yet to be fixed for hearing the application. Meanwhile, the anti-graft commission has arraigned Okorocha on a 17-count charge of money laundering. He pleaded not guilty to the charges upon arraignment on Monday. Inyang Ekwo, the presiding judge, ordered that the senator remain in EFCC’s custody pending the outcome of the bail application which will be heard on Tuesday.