Nasir el-Rufai, governor of Kaduna, has expressed concern over the presence of terrorist groups in the state. Boko Haram and Ansaru fighters are said to have bases at Birnin Gwari and Chikun LGAs of the state. This information was contained in a report presented to him by Samuel Aruwan, Kaduna commissioner for internal security. The report said between January and March 2022, a total of 360 people were killed while 1,389 others were abducted by terrorists in the state. Speaking after he received the report from the commissioner, el-Rufai described the situation as unfortunate. “It is unfortunate that in spite of our investment in human, material and other resources to stem the tide of criminality in the state, the levels are still a source of concern,” he said. “The first great concern is the emergence of Boko Haram terrorist enclave as well as activities of Ansaru, particularly in Birnin Gwari and Chikun LGA. “Among those kidnapped from the train, was a former roommate and classmate of mine who was released upon payment of a ransom and throughout the period that he was in captivity, it was very clear that the terrorists were making comments like the forests in Kaduna are even better than Sambisa, so, they should all relocate here. “I think this is an area we should all be concerned about. That is why we have been making the point that the problem of insecurity now has moved from the north-east to the north-west.” The governor said measures must be taken to curb insecurity in the most troubled parts of the state. “There is something wrong with the Rijana, Katari axis and the government should not refuse to do anything,” he said. “We have to look at the options including the clearance of the settlements completely and relocation of the people to where other more honest people can watch them.” Earlier, Aruwan said the report contained the statistics of security incidents in the state in the first quarter of 2022 as well as efforts by the state government to contain them. He said a total of 1,389 people were kidnapped in the first quarter, with Kaduna Central senatorial district accounting for 1,083.