Chukwuma Soludo, governor of Anambra, has announced a restriction on the operations of motorcycles, tricycles and shuttle buses in eight LGAs of the state. Soludo announced the restriction during a state broadcast in Awka, the Anambra capital. The affected LGAs are Aguata, Ihiala, Ekwusigo, Nnewi north, Nnewi south, Ogbaru, Orumba north and Orumba south. The governor said the restriction will take effect from Friday, and it will be from 6am to 6pm. Over the past weeks, Anambra has recorded an increase in the spate of attacks, resulting in killings, abductions and destruction of properties. Over the past weekend, a woman identified as Harira Jubril and her four children were killed by gunmen in Orumba north LGA of Anambra. Reacting to the attacks earlier on Wednesday, President Muhammadu Buhari had said persons behind the “wild” killings in the south-east should expect a tough response from security forces. Speaking during the broadcast, the Anambra governor also said the state government will revoke the land title of any house harbouring criminals in the state. “With effect from tomorrow, Friday, 26th May, 2022, a 6pm to 6am curfew is hereby placed on motorcycles (okada), tricycles (keke), and shuttle buses in Aguata, Ihiala, Ekwusigo, Nnewi north, Nnewi south, Ogbaru, Orumba north and Orumba south local government areas until further notice,” he said. “Until further notice also, motorcycles, keke and shuttle buses are banned from operating in these local governments on Mondays until the sit-at-home completely stops. “The youths of every community in the zone are hereby enjoined to assist the security agencies in the implementation of this policy and are mandated to seize any such motorcycle or tricycle on the spot. “Local vigilantes should report such motorcycles or tricycles (keke) immediately, and they will be confiscated by the government and the owner prosecuted. “The okada, keke, and shuttle bus union leaders must take responsibility to report their members who are involved in criminal activities. “We shall review this after two weeks, and if members of these unions continue to be involved in criminal activities, the government will have no choice but to either disband the unions and/or ban them outrightly in the state. “No part of Anambra state (house, bush or forest) shall be used as camps for these criminals. Anyone with a gun in a camp is considered a criminal in Anambra state, and the government and people will work with security agencies to flush them out. “The state government shall, pursuant to its powers under the Land Use Act, revoke and acquire any land found to be harbouring these criminals, for public purpose. “Henceforth, every community is required to provide information on any part of their land occupied by these criminals as camps. If the community fails to do so, the government will take over such land.”