The English Premier League (EPL) was decided on the final day with twists and turns — much to the delight of the neutrals. Anguished changed hands with despair as Manchester City claimed their sixth EPL title ahead of Liverpool, whose quadruple dream ended. In North London, however, both Tottenham and Arsenal, their bitter rivals, scored five goals each in victory but the former took fourth position to qualify for the UEFA Champions League (UCL) next season. TheCable Sports relives the key minutes and periods during a pulsating finale of the 2021/2022 EPL season. 2 mins: Liverpool concede! It was a shock start to the drama-filled day as Liverpool, needing a win to have a chance at the title, conceded an early goal. Ibrahima Konate, deputizing for Virgil van Dijk, misjudged a long ball that led to Raul Jimenez squaring for Pedro Neto to put Wolves 1-0 ahead. While Anfield experienced a deafening silence, Man City fans erupted in joy. 16 mins: Tottenham in firm control of the fourth position Tottenham solidified the fourth position with the lead at Norwich thanks to Dejan Kulusevski who slotted in Rodrigo Bentancur’s pass for a 1-0 lead. The melodrama continued with Newcastle United also taking the lead at Burnley thanks to Callum Wilson’s penalty awarded for handball, pushing the hosts into relegation place, replacing Leeds United still battling a stalemate at Brentford. 24 mins: Mane strike restores parity Liverpool equalized through Sadio Mane to roars at Anfield, restoring the home side’s title hopes. Man City, however, continued to dominate Aston Villa but found it hard to break down the visitors. As we were at the start of the day. 27 – 32 mins: North London war as Arsenal responds, Tottenham consolidate Tottenham and Arsenal traded three goals in the space of five minutes, the latter striking first through Gabriel Martinelli’s penalty from Alex Iwobi’s handball before doubling the advantage four minutes later through Edie Nketiah. Tottenham responded a minute later, Harry Kane’s diving header also doubling their advantage. 37 mins: Cash goal puts Man City in trouble Aston Villa took a surprise lead at Manchester City with their first attack. The visitors found a route to goal and fullback Matty Cash noded in a cross to hand Villa a surprise lead. While the stadium responded with despair, Steven Gerard, a Liverpool legend and Aston Villa coach, punched the air in celebration. Halftime: As we were at the start but Arsenal concede While Liverpool went into the break level, Man City could not respond at the interval and Arsenal’s lead was reduced after conceding on the stroke of halftime. Man City EPL champions at this point, Tottenham retain fourth, and Burnley for relegation. 50-70 mins: Again, Arsenal and Tottenham trade goals, Leeds lead Arsenal scored twice in ten minutes to put pressure on Tottenham, defenders Cedric Soares and Gabriel both finding the net for a 4-1 lead on 60 minutes. Tottenham, again, responded with two of theirs, Kulusevski finding the net before Heung-Min Son made it 4-0 four minutes later. Leeds United however took a massive step towards EPL safety by taking a 1-0 lead at Brentford thanks to a Raphinha penalty, while Max Cornet’s goal reduced Newcastle’s lead to 2-1 and handed Burnley a lifeline. 76-81 mins: Man City comeback kings Manchester City laid waste to Villa’s two-goal advantage with three goals in five minutes. Ilkay Gundogan started and completed the comeback while Rodri provided the equalizer. Manchester in delirium. Brentford halt Leeds with the equalizer on 78 minutes but was reduced to ten men two minutes later and the visitors have ten minutes to hang on to EPL safety. 84-90 mins: Liverpool secure points but too late; Leeds safe as Burnley is relegated Mohamed Salah, on as a substitute, belatedly put Liverpool in the lead, bundling in a rebound before Andy Robertson clinched the points in 90 minutes for a 3-1 win and an end to the team’s quadruple dream. Leeds however scored a last-minute winner to guarantee EPL safety as Burnley lost 2-1 to Newcastle United, bringing a gloomy end to their six-year stay in the EPL. Full-time: Man City are EPL champions, Tottenham are fourth and seal UCL qualification, Leeds safe as Burnley are relegated from EPL.