Adamu Garba, an aspirant who had declared his intention to contest the presidency on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has resigned his membership of the party. Garba announced his resignation from APC in a letter addressed to the party chairman in Karewa ward, Adamawa state. He also published the resignation letter on his social media handles on Wednesday. The development comes hours after Garba announced that he would no longer purchase the N100 million presidential form of the APC — despite reportedly receiving N83 million in donations for the purchase of the form. Explaining the reasons for his resignation, Garba said the APC has taken “some exclusionary practices” which are against democratic tenets. “My resignation was due to the fact that APC as a party has lost its moral bearing and has taken to some exclusionary practices which are against standard democratic tenets,” the resignation letter reads. “More importantly, as a young man who believes in the future of Nigeria and had high hopes in APC before now, I cannot continue to retain membership of a party that favours money beyond competency, vested interest beyond common interest, chronic elitism beyond public good, politics of exclusion beyond inclusion. “I do not, in all honesty, sincerely and with consciousness, believe that any young man in Nigeria has a future or model worthy of emulation for the benefit of Nigeria in APC. I believe the party has drifted so much from the original beliefs of its foundation to a something more cynical, undemocratic institution. “I further believe that the party has failed in its promises to deliver public good over the years, betrayed the public trust, and has turned out to be doing much worse than what we fought so hard to dethrone in the then PDP government. “Worst is the issue of internal security, that the party paid more attention to propaganda media statements that listening to the yearning of the people.” On his social media handles, Garba also published a list of persons he said donated the N83 million he got for the presidential form, and asked the donors to send their details if they wished to be refunded. As promised, here are the full lists of those who donated to our campaign via online platform. To those who require a refund, kindly highlight your name, send payment evidence corresponding to it, we will review, validate and refund insha Allahu May God bless you & Bless Nigeria pic.twitter.com/EdX3NvMfvX — Adamu Garba II (@adamugarba) May 11, 2022 