The Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) has listed the Nigeria National Petroleum Company (NNPC) Limited as the country’s highest taxpayer in 2021. It also listed Nigeria Liquified Petroleum Gas Company Ltd as the most supportive taxpayer for the year. Johannes Oluwatobi Wojuola, special assistant on media and communication to the chairman of FIRS, said this in a statement released on Monday. According to Wojuola, Muhammad Nami, executive chairman of FIRS, commended the companies for being consistent in contributing towards providing necessary funds for the government despite the economic conditions imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. “The FIRS is pleased to celebrate the top-performing taxpayers who contributed to her success in 2021,” the statement reads. “The service surpassed its tax collection target in 2021 and, in doing so, crossed the N6 trillion threshold for the first time. “The feat recorded by the service was made possible by the uncommon leadership of the President, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Nigeria — Muhammadu Buhari, the active support of our supervisory Ministry, the backing of the national assembly and its leadership as well as the cooperation of all other stakeholders in the tax area. “The combined efforts of all taxpayers made it possible for the Service to achieve the tax revenue collection of 2021, which provided our governments with necessary funds to meet their social contracts with the citizens.” The list of top-performing taxpayers includes Mobil Producing Limited, Star Deep Water Petroleum, MTN Nigeria Communications Plc, Shell Petroleum Development Company Limited, Chevron Nigeria Limited, Total E & P Nigeria Limited, Airtel Networks Limited, Nigeria Petroleum Development Company Limited, Nestle Nig. Plc. It also included Dangote Cement, Nigeria Breweries Plc, Total Upstream Nigeria Ltd, Indorama Eleme Petrochemicals Ltd, NIG Agip Oil Co. Ltd, British American Tobacco Marketing, Guaranty Trust Bank Plc, Stanbic IBC Bank Plc, and Lafarge Africa Plc. The statement added Northern Cables Processing and Manufacturing Limited (NOCACO) and Ikeja Electric Plc as most improved companies in tax filing and VAT compliance.