Asharami Synergy Limited, a Sahara Group Downstream Company, says it aims to achieve a 30 per cent market share of Nigeria’s Aviation Turbine Kerosene (ATK), also known as aviation fuel. The company said it would continue to invest in technology and innovative solutions to enhance its capacity for accelerating economic growth. Foluso Sobanjo, head, Sahara Downstream Business, at a recent press briefing in Lagos, said investments in diverse industries, including infrastructure, human capital transformation, and environmental sustainability, continue to drive service excellence in the organisation. Sobanjo added that the company currently controls about 25 per cent market share in the industry, operating as the preferred aviation fuel market for local and international airlines. He said the company would leverage its technology-driven supply chain efficiency across the downstream value chain to deliver distinctive value. “We have been at the forefront of Oil and Gas Enterprise in the West African region for over twenty years. Asharami Synergy has a formidable presence in the sector, providing best-in-class fuel procurement and distribution solutions by utilising innovative technology and improved efficiency across the downstream supply chain,” Sobanjo said. “Our quest for increased market share is borne out of our commitment to transforming the sector and spurring economic development.” According to him, “safety first and always” is the mantra that drives operations in Asharami Synergy. He said being a strategic partner of the International Air Transport Association (IATA) gives Asharami Synergy global credibility. “Asharami Synergy has several ISO certifications; ISO 9001:2015 (Quality), ISO 14001:2015 (Environmental) and ISO 45001:2018 (Occupational Health and Safety),” he added. “This reinforces our commitment to bringing energy to life responsibly in all our operations. “Our mantra is to Safety First, Safety Always, ensuring that the health and safety of our employees and other stakeholders remain the top priority in all business operations.” Asharami Synergy operates in four countries in Africa and has a combined storage capacity of 81 million litres of Aviation fuel, also known as ATK.