Bola Tinubu, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and presidential hopeful, has condoled with Rivers over the death of more than 30 people at a stampede at a church event in the state. A total of 31 persons were confirmed dead on Sunday following a stampede at the venue of a programme organised by The King’s Assembly in Port Harcourt, the Rivers capital. According to a statement on Monday by his media office, Tinubu, in a letter addressed to Nyesom Wike, governor of Rivers, described the incident as a “devastating and unfortunate disaster”. “I offer my sincere condolences to you, to the good people of Rivers state and to the bereaved families, friends and loved ones of all those who sadly perished in the recent catastrophic stampede in Port Harcourt,” Tinubu was quoted as saying. “This was a devastating and unfortunate disaster, which took place in the cruellest of circumstances: at an event organised by a local church to provide food, clothing and spiritual guidance to the needy. “My thoughts and prayers are with the families of all those who sadly lost their lives and with the innocent survivors now forced to rebuild their lives in the aftermath of this terrible incident. “As those who survived the stampede begin the process of healing and recovery, may God Almighty guide, guard and keep them and fill them with His peace. “I also beseech Almighty Allah to grant your administration, as well as all others around the country, the fortitude and wisdom necessary to implement measures, policies and guidelines to ensure that nothing like this happens again in Rivers, or anywhere else in Nigeria.” He commended the state’s emergency management agency for responding to the incident and rescuing as many people as possible. He added that leaders across the country should do all they can to protect citizens. “I offer you my support in this time of grief. It is important that we learn the lessons of this incident and make sure nothing like this ever happens again,” he added.