The comments have not stopped pouring in since President Muhammadu Buhari directed his cabinet members seeking elective positions to hand in their resignation on or by May 16. After repeated clamour from various quarters for the aspirants to step down, the president finally pulled the plug on Wednesday. Rotimi Amaechi, transportation minister; Ogbonnaya Onu, science and technology minister; Godswill Akpabio, Niger Delta affairs minister; Chris Ngige, labour minister; Abubakar Malami, attorney-general of the federation (AGF) and justice minister, and Pauline Tallen, minister of women affairs, are all affected by the directive. Here are comments from Nigerians on Twitter.  As Malami, Amaechi, Bashir and co resign, are we sure their salaries will be stopped ? Let’s ask the right questions o. Not the one they’ll still be collecting salaries by proxy — Deborah Tolu-Kolawole (@DeborahToluwase) May 11, 2022  Exodus as Amaechi, Malami, Nwajiuba, Ogah, Ngige, Akpabio, Sylva, Onu and Tallen bow out from the Federal Executive Council, about one year to the end of the Administration… — Jubril of Sudan till 2023 (@Gen_Buhar) May 11, 2022  The APC waited for Amaechi, Ngige, Malami, Nwajiuba, Ogbonnaya Onu, Akpabio & other ministers to pay up, before Buhari asked them to resign. Osinbajo is elected, he won’t be resigning. To restore confidence & trust in the process, Emefiele & other political appointees must resign — NEFERTITI (@firstladyship) May 11, 2022  Let’s see what Malami,Amaechi,Ngige and Co will do next atleast HonNwajiuba has made a headstart. — Izu Bright (@Coltishbright) May 11, 2022  Ngige says he want to consult first before resigning — GENERAL OMOKO (@Maiomoko) May 11, 2022  All members of Buhari’s cabinet vying for public office have been asked to resign on or before May 16, 2022.
Malami, Ngige and co — Deborah Tolu-Kolawole (@DeborahToluwase) May 11, 2022  Rotimi Amaechi, Godswill Akpabio, Chris Ngige, Ogbonnaya Onu, Uche Ogar, Pauline Tallen, and Emeka Nwajiuba waiting for their turn to resign on Monday. pic.twitter.com/Bs56VjQ34i — ♡ @OneJoblessBoy  (@OneJoblessBoy) May 11, 2022  By Friday, @ChibuikeAmaechi will announce a withdrawal from the presidential race so he can remain a minister . @HETimipreSylva will do same too. Dr Chris Ngige is a stubborn person so he may or may not adhere to the instructions and resign but I don’t think he will disobey. — Nimrod Live and Let Live (@GhenhisKhan) May 11, 2022  Did they have to wait for him to give them that directive? — Volder Vic (@Ola_olomola) May 11, 2022  No joy for the untouchable Abubakar Malami on these streets… — Fisayo Dairo (@FisayoDairo) May 11, 2022  One clear Point is that the Malami judgment of Umuahia has been set aside. So the electoral law Act 2022 remains intact. All appointees MUST now resign to contest unless they want to take the risk…. Risk to the Aspirant. Risk to the Party — Ayekooto (@DeeOneAyekooto) May 11, 2022  Buhari is simply a ‘ No-Send-person’ personality with his orders to his ministers to resign to contest for elective positions. Malawi,Amaechi, Ngige go face your campaigns. — AJIKAWO (@Tayoajikawo) May 11, 2022  Imagine asking Ngige to resign…for a ticket he knows is not sure about…STORY. — Hon. Otaigbe Imadegbelo (@Imudia_se2) May 11, 2022  No way Chris Ngige, Nwajiuba, Sylva, Emefiele and many others will resign for a nonexistent presidential ticket. They just donated to the party. All man go calm down by Monday morning — Onyekachi (@Felixity19) May 11, 2022 