President Muhammadu Buhari has used Twitter for the first time since the federal government lifted the restriction on the microblogging platform. In June 2021, the federal government announced an indefinite suspension of Twitter’s operation after the platform deleted tweets by Buhari who had threatened to treat members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) in the “language they understand”. After talks with the social media service which lasted months, the restriction was lifted on January 13. In a series of tweets to commemorate Eid-el-Fitr on Monday, Buhari spoke of how the fight against Boko Haram has been long and hard, but said victory is within sight. After a period of fasting and reflection, this year, we have cause to welcome the occasion in hope. The battle waged against terrorists who falsely masquerade under the name of Islam is approaching its conclusion. — Muhammadu Buhari (@MBuhari) May 2, 2022  “After a period of fasting and reflection, this year, we have cause to welcome the occasion in hope. The battle waged against terrorists who falsely masquerade under the name of Islam is approaching its conclusion,” he tweeted. “The fight has been long and hard. Final victory is within sight. Boko Haram and its offshoots’ final embers are now fading. Last month, the leader of ISWAP was killed in an airstrike. Since the New Year, thousands of fighters have surrendered. “The territories they used to occupy are now seeing the return of those who were forced to flee their barbarity. Normality is finally beginning to return to the Northeast. It is a long process. Yet it is one we are, together, now embarking upon. “With the designation of bandit groups as terrorists, the challenges of banditry & kidnapping are being tackled differently in the north-west and north-central where the latest military acquisitions and armed forces are being fanned out across the region to thwart acts of terror.” Buhari said his administration is working hard on every front to secure the country.