Looking for the best way to kick off your weekend? Showmax has got you covered with a good collection of top international movies on the streaming platform. From the action-packed F9: The Fast Saga to the horror movie, Old, your weekend is about to get as interesting as it can be. Here are some of the exciting titles below. F9: THE FAST SAGA | Action movie “No matter how fast you are, no one outruns their past, and mine just caught up to me,” admits Dominic Toretto (Vin Diesel) in F9: The Fast Saga, the fifth biggest movie of 2021. This time Dom must confront a world-shattering terrorist plot headed by his own estranged brother (John Cena). Both Diesel and Cena were nominated for People’s Choice Awards for their performances, as was Charlize Theron as Cipher. The all-star cast also includes People’s Choice nominees Jordana Brewster and Michelle Rodriguez, Grammy winners Cardi B and Ludacris, Emmy nominees Kurt Russell and Nathalie Emmanuel, and Oscar winner Helen Mirren, among others. OLD | Horror From Oscar nominee M. Night Shyamalan, the 2021 People’s Choice Award-nominated horror Old sees an idyllic holiday turn into a nightmare when visitors to a secluded beach realise they are ageing rapidly, reducing their entire lives to a single day. The 46th biggest film of 2021, Old stars BAFTA nominee Gael García Bernal, multi-award-winner Vicky Krieps, MTV Movie Award nominee Alex Wolff, Emmy nominee Rufus Sewell, Critics Choice nominee Thomasin McKenzie, and Critics Choice Super nominee Abbey Lee. I’M FINE (THANKS FOR ASKING) | Drama When the Covid-crunch lands a recently widowed mother on the street, she convinces her eight-year-old daughter that they are only camping for fun, while she works to get a roof over their heads. The micro-budget indie movie – funded largely on Coronavirus stimulus cheques – earned festival-favorite student filmmakers Kelley Kali (who also stars) and Angelique Molina the Special Jury Award at the 2021 SXSW Film SWAN SONG | Drama In Todd Stephens’ Swan Song, a formerly flamboyant hairdresser (multi-award-winning German character actor Udo Kier) takes a long walk across a small town to style a dead woman’s hair. Nominated for 2022 GLAAD and Queerties awards, Swan Song has a 92% critics’ rating on Rotten Tomatoes, with Slant saying the film “exhilaratingly bridges the gap between two vastly different eras in queer culture,“ adding that “as consistently hilarious as Swan Song is, the film’s tender side resonates just as memorably.” Swan Song also stars Critics Choice Award winner Jennifer Coolidge, Emmy nominee Linda Evans, and Teen Choice nominee Michael Urie. CHAOS WALKING| Fantasy Tom Holland (aka Spider-Man) and Daisy Ridley (aka Star Wars‘ Rey) co-star in Chaos Walking, set in a world where everyone can hear men’s thoughts, all the time. Directed by MTV Movie Award winner Doug Liman, Chaos Walking also stars BAFTA nominee Mads Mikkelsen, Emmy nominee David Oyelowo, Oscar nominees Demián Bichir and Cynthia Erivo, and Teen Choice winner Nick Jonas. Chaos Walking is based on the multi-award-winning young adult fantasy The Knife of Never Letting Go by Patrick Ness, who also co-wrote the screenplay. TILL DEATH | Thriller In Till Death, Emma must fight for her life after she is left handcuffed to her dead husband as part of a sick revenge plot. Till Death has a 90% critics’ rating on Rotten Tomatoes, where the critics’ consensus says, “Elevated by S.K. Dale’s inventive direction and Megan Fox’s committed performance, Till Death will part the viewer with all but the edge of their seat.” RAY DONOVAN: THE MOVIE | Crime drama Ray Donovan: The Movie picks up where the seventh and final season of the Emmy-winning series left off, with Ray determined to find and stop Mickey before he can cause any more carnage. With multi-award-winners Eddie Marsan and Dash Mihok, Pooch Hall and Katharine Moennig co-starring, the film also weaves together the present-day fallout from the Donovan/Sullivan feud with Ray and Mickey’s origin story from 30 years ago. THE BOY BEHIND THE DOOR | Horror MTV Movie Award winner Lonnie Chavis and Ezra Dewey star in the horror-thriller The Boy Behind the Door, which sees two boys kidnapped and taken to a labyrinthine house in the middle of nowhere, where their only chance at survival is sticking together. The movie has a 97% critics’ rating on Rotten Tomatoes, where the critics’ consensus says, “A tense, terrifying, and all-around outstanding feature debut for its co-directing duo, The Boy Behind the Door should thrill discerning horror fans.” BOSS LEVEL | Sci-fi action thriller Boss Level stars Fangoria Chainsaw Award nominee Frank Grillo as a retired special forces soldier trapped in a time loop that constantly repeats the day of his murder as he tries to unlock the mystery behind his untimely demise. Oscar winner Mel Gibson, Oscar nominee Naomi Watts, BAFTA nominee Michelle Yeoh and MTV Movie Award winner Ken Jeong co-star. THE RECKONING | Horror From Emmy-nominated director Neil Marshall,, The Reckoning is set in London, 1665, where the great plague stalks the narrow streets, leaving death in its wake. Grace is a young widow haunted by the recent death of her husband Joseph. As fear and superstition take hold, she rejects the advances of her landlord and finds herself accused of being a witch… Grace is played by Charlotte Kirk ,who co-wrote and executive produced alongside Marshall, winning eight Best Actress awards on the festival circuit and sharing five more for the screenplay. In all, The Reckoning has won over 40 international awards. MAYDAY | Fantasy A young woman finds herself in a dangerous, dreamlike land, where she joins an army of girls engaged in a never-ending war. But is she the killer they want her to be? Winner of Best Cinematography at Raindance 2021 after having its world premiere in competition at Sundance, Mayday stars Grace Van Patten, Film Independent Spirit winner Mia Goth, two-time César nominee Soko and Oscar nominee Juliette Lewis. You can enjoy all these exciting titles and more from as low as N1,200 a month on www.showmax.com.