Three people have reportedly been killed, while nine others were abducted in an attack on Tokace community, Chikun LGA of Kaduna. In a telephone interview with TheCable, a resident of the area who didn’t want to be named said the attack took place aroubf 9pm on Tuesday. The resident said the gunmen, who came in their numbers, shot sporadically, and as residents attempted to flee, three persons were killed. “The bandits came around 9pm yesterday and started shooting indiscriminately. We were all afraid and everybody started running to the bushes for dear life,” he said. “Three people were killed as they tried to escape. They kidnapped nine people.” The attack occurred hours after several persons were said to have been abducted on the Abuja-Kaduna highway. In a separate development, the Kaduna state police command said its operatives arrested one Rilwanu Abdullahi, a suspected gun runner in Zaria. In a statement, Mohammed Jalige, spokesperson of the command, said the suspect who hails from Damari village, Birnin Gwari LGA of Kaduna, was arrested with an AK-47 rifle and several rounds of live ammunition. “On the 17th of May, 2022, the operatives of the Kaduna Police Command attached to Zaria Area Command acted on credible intelligence and succeeded in arresting one Rilwanu Abdullahi ‘M’ of Damari village of Birnin Gwari LGA, Kaduna state with an AK-47 rifle with six hundred (600) rounds of 7.62 X 39mm live ammunition,” Jalige said. “The suspect was seen in a suspicious manner around Madachi area of Zaria city and on sighting the operatives, the suspect attempted to escape but was chased and apprehended. “Upon further interrogation, the suspect led detectives to another location where an additional Volkswagen car with Reg. No AX 973 LGA was recovered with the said number of live ammunition carefully concealed inside the fuel tank aimed at evading the eagle eyes of security operatives.” Jalige also urged the public to cooperate with the police, especially with credible information on bandits’ informants. “If the informants are dislodged, the bandits will be suffocated and lack ground to operate,” he added.