Commercial motorcyclists have reportedly lynched a sound engineer simply identified as David in the Lekki axis of Lagos state. TheCable understands that the incident happened a few days ago, following a misunderstanding between David, who is said to be a father of two, and a motorcyclist. A misunderstanding over N100 balance was said to have degenerated, resulting in some motorcyclists present at the scene joining their colleague to beat up David and two of his friends. The commercial motorcyclists were said to have set the deceased ablaze after beating him unconscious. In a video clip of the incident shared online, a young man was seen lying on the ground with tyres arranged on his body, while some men set fire to the seemingly lifeless body. TheCable understands that the sound engineer and his friends —  a saxophonist and keyboardist — were heading to the studio when the incident happened. Benjamin Hundeyin, Lagos police spokesperson, said four suspects have been arrested in connection with the murder of the sound engineer. Hundeyin added that the deceased’s friends had been taken to a hospital for treatment. The incident has sparked outrage and condemnation on social media as many Nigerians are calling for justice for the deceased. See tweets here: #JusticeForDave#JusticeForDave pic.twitter.com/SSIICOCkMB — Etedi (@EtediPeters) May 14, 2022  This is Dave! Sound Engineer. Profiled wrongly by a mob,accused,   killed and burnt brutally.  #JusticeForDave #RIPDave pic.twitter.com/N2GnulWTIf — ZZETTA (@lordesszzetta) May 14, 2022  #JusticeForDave that was how this promising young man was killed for no reason. David used to be the sound engineer of my band before he moved to another one. The fact that beer band denied them is just really annoying and sad. Such a shame. These hausa bike men need to be stoped pic.twitter.com/52hWzxC0ml — Gyal Eazzie (@Gyal_eazzie) May 15, 2022  So a young man and father of 2 was killed and set ablaze on Sunday in Lekki, by Northern bike men, over disagreement of 100 naira, but na Sokoto dey trend? Someone wrote a thread on the issue of bike men and their spread in Lagos, but y’all feigned ignorance.#justicefordave — The_Artist (@edifix_studios) May 15, 2022  This is Fransax. One of the guys that was beaten to a pulp by the mob for no just reason. He came outside to check on his musician colleagues & they labelled him as one of them & immediately pounced on him too. He's presently fighting for his life at the hospital. #JusticeForDave pic.twitter.com/iwSvJf6V0K — ZZETTA (@lordesszzetta) May 14, 2022  On Wednesday, two unidentified men were burnt to death by a mob at the Ijesha axis of Lagos over the alleged theft of mobile phones.