Oriyomi Hamzat, broadcaster and owner of Agidigbo FM in Ibadan, Oyo state, has been released from police custody — hours after he was arrested. On Thursday, Hamzat was said to have been arrested by officers of force intelligence bureau, in Ibadan and subsequently transferred to Abuja. Hamzat’s arrest had elicited reactions, while a protest was held in Ibadan calling for the release of the broadcaster. Reacting to the development in a statement on Thursday, Muyiwa Adejobi, force spokesman, said the broadcaster was arrested over a case of “cyberbullying under investigation”. Adejobi also said the police are currently investigating a petition written against the broadcaster on alleged violation of the Cybercrime Act of 2015. “The popular Ibadan-based broadcaster, Oriyomi Hamzat, was arrested in Ibadan today by our Force Intelligence Bureau operatives in connection with a case of Cyber Bullying under investigation,” the statement reads. “Oriyomi’s arrest was sequel to his refusal to honour Police invitation severally, which prompted the police to secure a warrant for his arrest. “We are looking into the petition written against him for his violation of the Cybercrime Act, 2015, and necessary action will be taken to do justice in the matter. Further development will be communicated to you all.” ‘PETITION WRITTEN BY RAHMON ADEDOYIN’S LAWYERS’ Announcing the release of the broadcaster in a statement on Friday, the management of Agidigbo FM said Hamzat was arrested following a petition written by the lawyers of Rahmon Adedoyin, the owner of Hilton Hotels and Resort. The management said the broadcaster did not engage in cyberbullying nor did he refuse to honour police invitations as stated by Adejobi. “It is with a heart filled with immense gratitude and huge relief that we confirm to the general public that Mr. Oriyomi Hamzat has finally regained his freedom after the arrest that spanned the entirety of yesterday,” the statement reads. “He was released on bail to his lawyers after due conversations with the authorities particularly with respect to the petition written against him by Rahman Adedoyin’s lawyers and the validity of his consequent arrest. “As we have rightly stated yesterday, at no point was Mr. Oriyomi Hamzat found guilty of cyberbullying nor did he refuse at any point to not honor invitations from the Nigerian Police Force as wrongly alleged by the Force PRO. Why this false insinuation is being purveyed is completely beyond our grasp? “Nonetheless, it is at this juncture; that we express our heartfelt appreciation to all Nigerians who stood by us throughout yesterday’s trying moment, lent their voice to #FreeOriyomiHamzat. This might not have been possible; especially this soon, without your amplification of our concerns.” Adedoyin and some persons are currently facing trial at the Osun state high court over their alleged involvement in the murder of Timothy Adegoke, a postgraduate student of Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife. Adegoke was said to have lodged at Hilton hotel in November 2021, and was declared missing two days later — only to be found dead.