The federal executive council has approved the sum of N2 billion for the Nigeria Security and Civil Defense Corps (NSCDC) to purchase 52 operational vehicles. The council gave the approval on Wednesday at the meeting presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari in Abuja. FEC also approved three major power contracts to improve electricity supply. Speaking at the end of the meeting, Rauf Aregbesola, minister of interior, said the 52 vehicles comprised 27 buffalo double cabins, MG 2021 model, 15 Toyota Hilux four-wheel drive premium package 2020 model, and 10 Toyota Hiace ambulance buses with full option. “This is done to enhance the capacity of the agency to combat crimes and criminality in Nigeria. It’s my belief that this will go a long way in protecting lives and property in Nigeria,” he said. Also speaking to the press, Jedy Agba, the minister of state for power, said the council approved three major contracts aimed at enhancing the performance of the national grid in view of improving power supply. He said there is a need to reinvigorate the national grid following incessant collapses, leading to the poor power supply in the country. “You will agree with me that of late we’ve had grid collapses, resulting in epileptic power supply in most parts of the country. There’s definitely been the need for us to reinvigorate our national grid so as to sustain and provide electricity to majority members of our country and the communities around us,” he said. “To that effect, FEC today approved three major contracts aimed at enhancing the performance of the national grid with the view to improving power supply. One of the lines is the one linking Benin, Oshogbo, and Akure in Edo, Osun, and, Ondo states. “So, in the three states, the grid in that area has been weak for some time, but with this approval of today’s contract, we are swinging into action and certainly, very shortly, we would have improvements on the grid in that area. “Also the 133 KVA in Akwanga and Lafia in Nasarawa state, has also been improved that also helps to strengthen the line to Abuja through those two states and the states further, Plateau and Benue states would have improved electrical supply, following those strengthening. “So, if we empower our grid properly, and given the encouragement the president and FEC has given us, we promised Nigerians that the grid will be enhanced, and electricity supply to the country improved, howbeit, gradually. But we are working on that. And with these approvals, we hope to do better for Nigerians.”