Rotimi Akeredolu, governor of Ondo, has asked Godwin Emefiele, the governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), to resign his position if he wants to contest the presidency. TheCable had reported that three interest groups procured the presidential nomination form of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for Emefiele. The representatives of the coalition of three groups — “rice farmers”, “Emefiele Support Group” and “Friends of Godwin Emefiele” — were said to have picked the form on Friday at the International Conference Centre (ICC) in Abuja. The development stirred varied reactions on social media as some Nigerians queried the possibility of the CBN governor contesting the presidency while in office. Speaking on the development in a statement, Akeredolu said Emefiele cannot participate actively in partisan politics and also hold the position of CBN governor. “Consequently, we admonish Mr Emefiele to leave the office, immediately, for him to pursue his interest,” the Ondo governor said. “He cannot combine partisan politics with the very delicate assignment of his office. Should he refuse to quit, it becomes incumbent on the President and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces to remove him forthwith. “Rumours had been rife on the subterranean partisan activities linked to him through these shadowy characters in the recent weeks. “Pictures of branded vehicles, ostensibly purchased for electioneering campaigns, were also posted on social media. The audacious moves by those who claimed to be supporting this interest have been unsettling. “This latest news confirms that the Governor may indeed be interested in immersing himself in the murky waters of politics like any other Nigerian with partisan interests. “It is incontrovertible that Mr Emefiele enjoys a constitutionally protected right to belong to any group or association and participate fully, just as any Nigerian. “It is, however, difficult to imagine that a person who occupies the exalted and sensitive office of the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria will be this brazen in actualising his ambition. “There is no gain asserting the obvious. The combined effect of the Public Service Rules, CBN Act and the 1999 Constitution, as amended, exposes not only the oddity inherent in this brash exercise of presumed right to associate. “It also confirms the illegality of the act should he proceed to submit the forms while occupying the seat as Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria.”