Simon Lalong, governor of Plateau, has secured the ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to represent Plateau south senatorial district in the 2023 elections. Lalong was elected unopposed by delegates at the primary, which held on Saturday at the zonal headquarters of the senatorial district in Shendam LGA of the state. According to NAN, Titi Oseni, chairman of the election panel, said Lalong got 335 out of the 340 votes, while five votes were invalid. In a statement on Saturday by Makut Macham, his spokesperson, Lalong thanked APC members in the zone for their support and promised that he would not disappoint them. He said he would use his experience as a governor, lawyer, and former speaker of the state house of assembly, to attract development opportunities to the zone and the entire state. The governor also thanked the Plateau legacy group for purchasing the senatorial nomination form for him to contest. YARI, MARAFA GET TICKETS IN ZAMFARA Abdul’aziz Yari, former Zamfara governor, and Kabiru Marafa, former senator, have secured APC tickets for Zamfara west and Zamfara central senatorial districts, respectively. Announcing the result of the primary for Zamfara west on Saturday, Shehu Kagara, the chairman of the committee, said Yari, who contested unopposed, scored 310 out of the 306 votes at the primaries. In his remarks, Bello Matawalle, the incumbent governor of the state, described Yari’s victory as a welcome development. In Zamfara central district, Sola Olugbemiro, the panel chairman for senatorial primaries in the area, said Marafa secured 215 from the four LGAs — Gusau, Bungudu, Maru and Tsafe — and he contested unopposed. Olugbemiro commended the delegates and all party supporters for their orderly conduct during the exercise. On his part, Marafa expressed appreciation to delegates and party supporters for considering him worthy of representing them, and promised to contribute his quota to the state’s development if he wins the election. AL-MAKURA SECURES TICKET IN NASARAWA In Nasarawa, Tanko Al-Makura, the former governor, also clinched the party’s ticket unopposed to contest the Nasarawa south senatorial seat in the 2023 general election. Abubakar Abbas, chairman of the primary election committee, said delegates from the district affirmed Al-Makura to return to the senate. Addressing journalists after the election, the governor said he is grateful to his constituents for trusting him to represent them. “I count myself lucky, having been spurred by my people, by their support, acceptability and kindness showed to me to represent them over the years,” he said. “My people considered me to continue to represent them for the second tenure in the senate. I think there is a big burden on me. I feel grateful and appreciative of my people.” IT’S WAMAKKO FOR APC IN SOKOTO CENTRAL Aliyu Wamakko, former Sokoto governor, was announced winner of the Sokoto central senatorial primary, which held on Saturday. Wamakko secured the mandate through affirmation votes by delegates from eight LGAs of the district at the primary. The motion for affirmation was moved by Babangida Dantsoho from Sokoto south and seconded by Aliyu Sabo from Kware LGA. In his remarks after the affirmation, Wamakko thanked the delegates for their support, and assured them of continuous active representation.