Anyim Pius Anyim, former senate president, has condemned the killing of Deborah Samuel, a female student of Shehu Shagari College of Education, Sokoto state. The student was said to have been attacked by a mob over comments purportedly considered to be an insult to Prophet Mohammed. A video of the student being stoned and beaten with sticks was shared on social media, and the incident was said to have occurred in the early hours of Thursday. In a statement shared on his Twitter account, on Friday, Anyim said jungle justice has no place in modern democracy. “I condemn in the strongest terms, the cruel, gruesome and unlawful killing of Miss Deborah Yakubu in Sokoto state on Thursday, 13th of May, 2022,” Anyim said. “There is no place in a modern democracy such as Nigeria for jungle justice and killing of human beings illegally. “Deborah Yakubu deserved to have been put through the full process of the law which has adequate punishment for all offences including the one she was accused of. We cannot afford now to add religious intolerance to the plethora of problems bedevilling our country. “I therefore urge security agencies to carry out thorough investigation into this ugly incident with a view to bringing those responsible for the unlawful murder of a promising Nigerian to justice as soon as possible. “I condole with the immediate family and friends of late Miss Yakubu over this painful death and irreplaceable loss. And I pray that God, in His infinite mercy, grants the soul of Miss Yakubu a peaceful repose and to those she left behind, the strength and courage to bear the loss.” I condemn in the strongest terms, the cruel, gruesome and unlawful killing of Miss Deborah Yakubu in Sokoto State on Thursday, 13th of May, 2022. There is no place in a modern democracy such as Nigeria for jungle justice and killing of human beings illegally. — Anyim Pius Anyim (@AnyimPiusA) May 13, 2022  On Saturday, some rioters had taken over major roads in Sokoto and destroyed some facilities over the arrest of the suspected killers of Deborah. Aminu Tambuwal, governor of Sokoto, has imposed a 24-hour curfew on the state.