This might be your first time of hearing this: vehicle owners in Nigeria are obliged by the law to apply for approval from licensing authorities whenever they want to change the colour of their vehicles. This clause is stipulated in section 13 of the National Road Traffic Regulations (NRTR), 2012, a law that was enacted to confer more powers on the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC). According to the NRTR 2012, vehicle owners are restrained from changing the colour of their vehicles until the request is approved by the licensing authorities. The law also stated that a prescribed fee will be paid by the applicant for the change of vehicle colour. Section 13 of NRTR 2012 states: “Where the colour of a vehicle is to be changed, the owner shall apply for approval from the authority in Form MVA 6 of Schedule 1 to these regulations and unless such an application is approved, the owner of the vehicle shall be restrained from changing the colour of the vehicle. “(2) A new vehicle licence shall be issued after payment of the fees prescribed to reflect the new colour of the vehicle and the old vehicle licence shall be withdrawn from the owner. “(3) Any alteration or change in the particulars of the vehicle shall be reflected in the registration book by the appropriate authority. IT IS ILLEGAL TO CHANGE YOUR VEHICLE COLOUR WITHOUT APPROVAL Under the NRTR 2012, it is a criminal offence for vehicle owners to change the colour of their vehicle without due approval from licensing authorities. Vehicles owners who breached the law risk a fine of N3,000 or an imprisonment term of six months or both. In addition, the licence of such a vehicle will become invalid. Section 13(4) of NRTR 2012 states: “Where the colour of a vehicle is changed without due approval, the licence of such a vehicle shall become invalid and the owner of the vehicle has committed an offence under these regulations and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N3,000:00 or to imprisonment for a term of 6 months or both.”