Chris Ngige, minister of labour and employment, says the federal government will resume negotiations with the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) next week with the aim of ending the strike action embarked on by the union. Ngige said this on Friday in his opening remarks at a meeting between representatives of the federal government and the National Association of Academic Technologists (NAAT), who also are on strike. On February 14, ASUU embarked on a one-month warning strike over the non-implementation of an agreement reached with the federal government in 2020. On March 14, the union extended the strike by eight weeks following dissatisfaction with the federal government’s “disappointing” response on ASUU’s demands. Speaking on the development, the minister said the various strikes in the education sector could have been avoided if the unions embraced his “open door policy” like associations in the health sector. “If you are from any union, you don’t need to book appointment to see me. The doctors started using that advantage; JOHESU also did the same,” he said. “That is why the health sector is quiet. But the education unions don’t take advantage of my open door policy. “We don’t have to cry over spilt milk. Let us look at your issues to see the ones we can handle immediately, the ones we can do in the medium term, and the ones we can do in the long term. There are certain ones that are over and above me that are not in my hands to do. “My job is to prepare an agreement after conciliation on what you have agreed with your employers — the federal ministry of education — and put timelines and monitor them, to see whether the results will be there. “That is why I want to task all of you holistically and I ask for your cooperation. When I finish with you today, I will continue with ASUU next week. “I have met NASU and SSANU yesterday and they were happy. I want you people to be happy as we leave here. “I believe that if we talk frankly to ourselves, knowing that the economy is not good and that you should have money that can take you home, with an open mind, we will arrive at something. Once we arrive at something, it will be done.”