Orji Kalu, chief whip of the senate, says nine presidential hopefuls from the All Progressives Congress (APC) are set to back the bid of Senate President Ahmad Lawan. According to NAN, Kalu did not give the names of the aspirants. On Monday, Kalu withdrew from the 2023 presidential race and endorsed Lawan. The senate chief whip said he took the decision because there is “no zoning” in the APC and the contest has been thrown open to all aspirants. “Lawan’s candidature will rock like hurricane,” Kalu told NAN on Saturday. “The issue of the APC presidential candidate will be settled even before the primaries. “As I am talking to you, about nine presidential aspirants from our party have intimated me of their plans to drop their presidential ambition to support Ahmad Lawan. “Does that not signify victory before the election? Lawan’s candidature will rock like hurricane. “Lawan is from the north-east and has similar sympathy with the south-east that is yet to produce a president. “I have repeated my reasons for dropping my ambition for Lawan severally and I am sure Nigerians are aware already. “We are also expecting an influential presidential aspirant from the opposition to join the APC. “So, you can see the party is very progressive and properly ready for Lawan’s emergence.” On the call for postponement of primary elections by some political parties, Kalu said he does not expect the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to listen to them. He said the parties were duly informed and should have prepared well as mandated by the electoral body. “Extension of the dates will only support irresponsibility. Nigerians find it difficult to keep to time and appointments and that is why they would always seek for extra time,” Kalu said. “I support INEC to stick to their timetable otherwise we will be living with postponement after postponement. Such a trend is not healthy for a society and its people. “We complains of indiscipline but not ready to be practical about the requirements of discipline. “INEC should discipline any party that fails to meet up, because that is the only way they can take their jobs seriously.”